It's official: U.S. President Barack Obama wants lawmakers to weigh in on whether to use military force in Syria.

Obama sent a letter to the heads of the House and Senate on Saturday night, hours after announcing that he believes military action against Syrian targets is the right step to take over the alleged use of chemical weapons.

The proposed legislation from Obama asks Congress to approve the use of military force "to deter, disrupt, prevent and degrade the potential for future uses of chemical weapons or other weapons of mass destruction."

It's a step that is set to turn an international crisis into a fierce domestic political battle.

There are key questions looming over the debate: What did U.N. weapons inspectors find in Syria? What happens if Congress votes no? And how will the Syrian government react?

In a televised address from the White House Rose Garden earlier Saturday, the president said he would take his case to Congress, not because he has to -- but because he wants to.

"While I believe I have the authority to carry out this military action without specific congressional authorization, I know that the country will be stronger if we take this course, and our actions will be even more effective," he said. "We should have this debate, because the issues are too big for business as usual."

Obama said top congressional leaders had agreed to schedule a debate when the body returns to Washington on September 9. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee will hold a hearing over the matter on Tuesday, Sen. Robert Menendez said.

Transcript: Read Obama's full remarks

Syrian crisis: Latest developments

U.N. inspectors leave Syria

Obama's remarks came shortly after U.N. inspectors left Syria, carrying evidence that will determine whether chemical weapons were used in an attack early last week in a Damascus suburb.

"The aim of the game here, the mandate, is very clear -- and that is to ascertain whether chemical weapons were used -- and not by whom," U.N. spokesman Martin Nesirky told reporters on Saturday.

But who used the weapons in the reported toxic gas attack in a Damascus suburb on August 21 has been a key point of global debate over the Syrian crisis.

Top U.S. officials have said there's no doubt that the Syrian government was behind it, while Syrian officials have denied responsibility and blamed jihadists fighting with the rebels.

British and U.S. intelligence reports say the attack involved chemical weapons, but U.N. officials have stressed the importance of waiting for an official report from inspectors.

The inspectors will share their findings with U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon Ban, who has said he wants to wait until the U.N. team's final report is completed before presenting it to the U.N. Security Council.

The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which nine of the inspectors belong to, said Saturday that it could take up to three weeks to analyze the evidence they collected.

"It needs time to be able to analyze the information and the samples," Nesirky said.

He noted that Ban has repeatedly said there is no alternative to a political solution to the crisis in Syria, and that "a military solution is not an option."

Bergen:  Syria is a problem from hell for the U.S.

Obama: 'This menace must be confronted'

Obama's senior advisers have debated the next steps to take, and the president's comments Saturday came amid mounting political pressure over the situation in Syria. Some U.S. lawmakers have called for immediate action while others warn of stepping into what could become a quagmire.

Some global leaders have expressed support, but the British Parliament's vote against military action earlier this week was a blow to Obama's hopes of getting strong backing from key NATO allies.

On Saturday, Obama proposed what he said would be a limited military action against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Any military attack would not be open-ended or include U.S. ground forces, he said.

Syria's alleged use of chemical weapons earlier this month "is an assault on human dignity," the president said.

A failure to respond with force, Obama argued,  "could lead to escalating use of chemical weapons or their proliferation to terrorist groups who would do our people harm. In a world with many dangers, this menace must be confronted."

Syria missile strike: What would happen next?

Map: U.S. and allied assets around Syria

Obama decision came Friday night

On Friday night, the president made a last-minute decision to consult lawmakers.

What will happen if they vote no?

It's unclear. A senior administration official told CNN that Obama has the authority to act without Congress -- even if Congress rejects his request for authorization to use force.

Obama on Saturday continued to shore up support for a strike on the al-Assad government.

He spoke by phone with French President Francois Hollande before his Rose Garden speech.

"The two leaders agreed that the international community must deliver a resolute message to the Assad regime -- and others who would consider using chemical weapons -- that these crimes are unacceptable and those who violate this international norm will be held accountable by the world," the White House said.

Meanwhile, as uncertainty loomed over how Congress would weigh in, U.S. military officials said they remained at the ready.

5 key assertions: U.S. intelligence report on Syria

Syria: Who wants what after chemical weapons horror

Reactions mixed to Obama's speech

A spokesman for the Syrian National Coalition said that the opposition group was disappointed by Obama's announcement.

"Our fear now is that the lack of action could embolden the regime and they repeat his attacks in a more serious way," said spokesman Louay Safi. "So we are quite concerned."

Some members of Congress applauded Obama's decision.

House Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor, Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy and Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers issued a statement Saturday praising the president.

"Under the Constitution, the responsibility to declare war lies with Congress," the Republican lawmakers said. "We are glad the president is seeking authorization for any military action in Syria in response to serious, substantive questions being raised."

More than 160 legislators, including 63 of Obama's fellow Democrats, had signed letters calling for either a vote or at least a "full debate" before any U.S. action.

British Prime Minister David Cameron, whose own attempt to get lawmakers in his country to support military action in Syria failed earlier this week, responded to Obama's speech in a Twitter post Saturday.

"I understand and support Barack Obama's position on Syria," Cameron said.

An influential lawmaker in Russia -- which has stood by Syria and criticized the United States -- had his own theory.

"The main reason Obama is turning to the Congress:  the military operation did not get enough support either in the world, among allies of the US or in the United States itself," Alexei Pushkov, chairman of the international-affairs committee of the Russian State Duma, said in a Twitter post.

In the United States, scattered groups of anti-war protesters around the country took to the streets Saturday.

"Like many other Americans...we're just tired of the United States getting involved and invading and bombing other countries," said Robin Rosecrans, who was among hundreds at a Los Angeles demonstration.

What do Syria's neighbors think?

Why Russia, China, Iran stand by Assad

Syria's government unfazed

After Obama's speech, a military and political analyst on Syrian state TV said Obama is "embarrassed" that Russia opposes military action against Syria, is "crying for help" for someone to come to his rescue and is facing two defeats -- on the political and military levels.

Syria's prime minister appeared unfazed by the saber-rattling.

"The Syrian Army's status is on maximum readiness and fingers are on the trigger to confront all challenges," Wael Nader al-Halqi said during a meeting with a delegation of Syrian expatriates from Italy, according to a banner on Syria State TV that was broadcast prior to Obama's address.

An anchor on Syrian state television said Obama "appeared to be preparing for an aggression on Syria based on repeated lies."

A top Syrian diplomat told the state television network that Obama was facing pressure to take military action from Israel, Turkey, some Arabs and right-wing extremists in the United States.

"I think he has done well by doing what Cameron did in terms of taking the issue to Parliament," said Bashar Jaafari, Syria's ambassador to the United Nations.

Both Obama and Cameron, he said, "climbed to the top of the tree and don't know how to get down."

The Syrian government has denied that it used chemical weapons in the August 21 attack, saying that jihadists fighting with the rebels used them in an effort to turn global sentiments against it.

British intelligence had put the number of people killed in the attack at more than 350.

On Saturday, Obama said "all told, well over 1,000 people were murdered." U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on Friday cited a death toll of 1,429, more than 400 of them children. No explanation was offered for the discrepancy.

Iran: U.S. military action in Syria would spark 'disaster'

Opinion: Why strikes in Syria are a bad idea

@highlight

Syrian official: Obama climbed to the top of the tree, "doesn't know how to get down"

@highlight

Obama sends a letter to the heads of the House and Senate

@highlight

Obama to seek congressional approval on military action against Syria

@highlight

Aim is to determine whether CW were used, not by whom, says U.N. spokesman
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Usain Bolt rounded off the world championships Sunday by claiming his third gold in Moscow as he anchored Jamaica to victory in the men's 4x100m relay.

The fastest man in the world charged clear of United States rival Justin Gatlin as the Jamaican quartet of Nesta Carter, Kemar Bailey-Cole, Nickel Ashmeade and Bolt won in 37.36 seconds.

The U.S finished second in 37.56 seconds with Canada taking the bronze after Britain were disqualified for a faulty handover.

The 26-year-old Bolt has now collected eight gold medals at world championships, equaling the record held by American trio Carl Lewis, Michael Johnson and Allyson Felix, not to mention the small matter of six Olympic titles.

The relay triumph followed individual successes in the 100 and 200 meters in the Russian capital.

"I'm proud of myself and I'll continue to work to dominate for as long as possible," Bolt said, having previously expressed his intention to carry on until the 2016 Rio Olympics.

Victory was never seriously in doubt once he got the baton safely in hand from Ashmeade, while Gatlin and the United States third leg runner Rakieem Salaam had problems.

Gatlin strayed out of his lane as he struggled to get full control of their baton and was never able to get on terms with Bolt.

Earlier, Jamaica's women underlined their dominance in the sprint events by winning the 4x100m relay gold, anchored by Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce, who like Bolt was completing a triple.

Their quartet recorded a championship record of 41.29 seconds, well clear of France, who crossed the line in second place in 42.73 seconds.

Defending champions, the United States, were initially back in the bronze medal position after losing time on the second handover between Alexandria Anderson and English Gardner, but promoted to silver when France were subsequently disqualified for an illegal handover.

The British quartet, who were initially fourth, were promoted to the bronze which eluded their men's team.

Fraser-Pryce, like Bolt aged 26, became the first woman to achieve three golds in the 100-200 and the relay.

In other final action on the last day of the championships, France's Teddy Tamgho became the third man to leap over 18m in the triple jump, exceeding the mark by four centimeters to take gold.

Germany's Christina Obergfoll finally took gold at global level in the women's javelin after five previous silvers, while Kenya's Asbel Kiprop easily won a tactical men's 1500m final.

Kiprop's compatriot Eunice Jepkoech Sum was a surprise winner of the women's 800m.

Bolt's final dash for golden glory brought the eight-day championship to a rousing finale, but while the hosts topped the medal table from the United States there was criticism of the poor attendances in the Luzhniki Stadium.

There was further concern when their pole vault gold medalist Yelena Isinbayeva made controversial remarks in support of Russia's new laws, which make "the propagandizing of non-traditional sexual relations among minors" a criminal offense.

She later attempted to clarify her comments, but there were renewed calls by gay rights groups for a boycott of the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, the next major sports event in Russia.

@highlight

Usain Bolt wins third gold of world championship

@highlight

Anchors Jamaica to 4x100m relay victory

@highlight

Eighth gold at the championships for Bolt

@highlight

Jamaica double up in women's 4x100m relay
***END_OF_STORY***
Kansas City, Missouri (CNN) -- The General Services Administration, already under investigation for lavish spending, allowed an employee to telecommute from Hawaii even though he is based at the GSA's Kansas City, Missouri, office, a CNN investigation has found.

It cost more than $24,000 for the business development specialist to travel to and from the mainland United States over the past year.

He is among several hundred GSA "virtual" workers who also travel to various conferences and their home offices, costing the agency millions of dollars over the past three years.

Under the program, employees work from home and may live in another state from the region in which they're actually assigned.

The Kansas City employee, who started his job in January 2011, is paid $84,440 and works from his home in Honolulu, a GSA representative confirmed.

In the past year, according to GSA travel records, the employee has flown back to the mainland nine times for conferences and meetings. Four of those trips were to St. Louis; four were to Washington, with a side trip to Cincinnati; and one was to San Diego. The total cost to taxpayers was $24,221.

Jason Klumb, the GSA's regional administrator for Kansas City, defended the hire.

"The cost of that travel was included in the consideration of his candidacy as an employee as compared with the other applicants," Klumb said. "And when factoring all of those in, it was determined that he was the best candidate, even in light of the cost that would be incurred."

Klumb called the GSA's teleworking program "a successful program that's going to lead to cost savings for taxpayers."

But a GSA spokeswoman said, "We are not going to defend this type of travel."

And a GSA employee in Kansas City, who requested anonymity, said that hiring someone in Hawaii to work for the Kansas City region was ludicrous.

"It doesn't make sense," the employee said. "When you consider everything you need when you hire someone, it would have been better to look for someone in the Kansas City area. It would have reduced the cost of travel by at least 70 percent when you look at just the airfare of what it takes to from Honolulu to Washington, D.C., where a lot of business is done."

Dan Tangherlini, who was appointed acting GSA administrator this year, said the agency was examining the cost of the entire teleworking program.

"I think the most important part for the GSA to think about is make sure we open ourselves up, avail ourselves to all the smart people in the country, but then also make sure we have a clear business case," he said. "If we have someone who is working in Nebraska but reporting to Boston, there has to be a clear explanation for what value they're providing, and you've got to give me the business case. You've got to explain to me why that's a cost-effective move for the American people, and that's a new standard that we're asking everyone at GSA to adhere to."

The GSA "virtual employee" program is different from telework programs offered by many private companies including CNN's parent company, Turner Broadcasting, in which some employees are encouraged to work from home some days of the week, partially to reduce traffic congestion.

The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform requested details about the GSA's teleworking program in June. That followed disclosures that 95 virtual employees, including 12 in supervisory positions, spent nearly $750,000 in travel costs between October 2010 and June 2011.

"The American people have a right to know that federal bureaucrats who enjoy the benefits of virtual work are eligible and responsible stewards of the taxpayer dollars that support the program," according to a letter from committee Chairman Rep. Darrell Issa, R-California, to the GSA.

The details requested by Issa about the GSA program have not been provided to the committee. CNN also requested the information more than two months ago through the federal Freedom of Information Act but has been repeatedly told by the GSA that FOIA staff members have not finished compiling the material.

The General Services Administration, which has more than 12,600 employees and a $26.3 billion budget, is a relatively obscure federal agency that handles government real estate and other non-military procurement. Congress launched an investigation into the GSA after a scathing inspector general's report issued this year showed lavish spending -- $823,000 -- at the agency's Western Regions Conference in Las Vegas in October 2010.

The controversy became politically toxic after reports and video clips of the lavish conference were released. The revelation prompted taxpayer indignation, embarrassed the administration and put a spotlight on wasteful spending by the GSA.

Jeff Neely, the GSA official who organized the conference, resigned, as did the agency's administrator, Martha Johnson. Two of Johnson's deputies were fired, and eight other employees left the agency. Tangherlini, a former Treasury Department official, took over as acting GSA administrator.

In addition to the Las Vegas conference, the GSA apparently spent $330,000 to relocate an employee from Denver to Hawaii and probably millions more on other employees over a two-year period, according to a transcript of an interview with a GSA event planner. And 84 GSA employees, most of them supervisors or other senior staff -- all subjects of inspector general investigations -- are still collecting their bonuses, totaling more than $1 million in taxpayer money.

In July, a CNN investigation revealed that the GSA's Kansas City office spent more than $20,000 to send employees to cooking classes to build team spirit. While the classes do not amount to a significant sum of money in the world of trillion-dollar government budgets, insiders said it was part of the free-spending culture that went on for years at the GSA's Kansas City regional headquarters.

GSA spokeswoman Betsaida Alcantara said in a statement this year that all the agency's practices are under a top-down review.

CNN's Sara Anwar, Elizabeth M. Nunez and Tom Cohen contributed to this report.

Watch Erin Burnett weekdays 7pm ET. For the latest from Erin Burnett click here.

@highlight

The employee in agency's Kansas City office is among hundreds of "virtual" workers

@highlight

The employee's travel to and from the mainland U.S. last year cost more than $24,000

@highlight

The telecommuting program, like all GSA practices, is under review
***END_OF_STORY***
Los Angeles (CNN) -- A medical doctor in Vancouver, British Columbia, said Thursday that California arson suspect Harry Burkhart suffered from severe mental illness in 2010, when she examined him as part of a team of doctors.

Dr. Blaga Stancheva, a family physician and specialist in obstetrics, said both Burkhart and his mother, Dorothee, were her patients in Vancouver while both were applying for refugee status in Canada.

"I was asked to diagnose and treat Harry to support a claim explaining why he was unable to show up in a small-claims court case," Stancheva told CNN in a phone interview. She declined to cite the case or Burkhart's role in it.

Stancheva said she and other doctors including a psychiatrist diagnosed Burkhart with "autism, severe anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder and depression." The diagnosis was spelled out in a letter she wrote for the small-claims court case, Stancheva said.

Stancheva, citing doctor-patient confidentiality, would not elaborate further, nor would she identify the psychiatrist involved in the diagnosis.

Burkhart, a 24-year-old German national, has been charged with 37 counts of arson following a string of 52 fires in Los Angeles. The charges are in connection with arson fires at 12 locations scattered through Hollywood, West Hollywood and Sherman Oaks, according to authorities.

Stancheva said the refugee applications by Burkhart and his mother were denied by the Canadian government, and she has not seen Burkhart since early March of 2010.

"I was shocked and dismayed at what happened in Los Angeles, and it appears he was not being treated for his depression," she said.

Burkhart was in court on Wednesday for a preliminary hearing.

Prosecutors said his "rage against Americans," triggered by his mother's arrest last week, motivated his "campaign of terror" with dozens of fires in Hollywood and nearby communities.

Burkhart kept his eyes closed and remained limp during most of his hearing, requiring sheriff's deputies to hold him up.

The district attorney called his courtroom behavior "very bizarre."

"This defendant has engaged in a protracted campaign in which he has set, the people believe, upwards of 52 arson fires in what essentially amounts to a campaign of terror against this community," Los Angeles County Deputy District Attorney Sean Carney said. "The people believe he has engaged in this conduct because he has a hatred for Americans."

Carney told the court Burkhart would flee the country if he was allowed out of jail on bond, but Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Upinder Kalra said he had no choice but to set bail. To go free while awaiting trial, Burkhart must post a $2.85 million bond and surrender his German passport.

It was revealed that Burkhart is also under investigation for arson and fraud in relation to a fire in Neukirchen, near Frankfurt, Germany.

The worst arson sprees in the city's history began last Friday morning with a car fire in Hollywood that spread to apartments above a garage, but no new fires have happened since Burkhart was arrested Monday, Los Angeles District Attorney Steve Cooley said.

No one was hurt in the fires, but property damage costs are likely to reach $3 million, authorities said.

Cooley called it "almost attempted murder," because people were sleeping in apartments above where Burkhart allegedly set cars on fire with incendiary devices placed under their engines.

The criminal complaint filed Wednesday also alleged that the fires were "caused by use of a device designed to accelerate the fire," Cooley said. "If found true, the allegation could mean additional custody time for the defendant."

"In numerous instances, the cars were parked in carports, resulting in the fires spreading to the adjacent occupied apartment buildings," a sworn affidavit from a Los Angeles arson investigator said. "The vast majority of these fires occurred late at night when the occupants of the apartment buildings were asleep."

Investigator Edward Nordskog's affidavit detailed Burkhart's behavior a day before the fires began, when he was in a federal courtroom during extradition proceedings for his mother.

"While in the audience, the defendant (Burkhart) began yelling in an angry manner, 'F--k all Americans.' The defendant also attempted to communicate with his mother who was in custody. Shortly thereafter, the defendant was ejected from the courtroom by Deputy U.S. Marshals," Nordskog wrote.

Dorothee Burkhart was arrested a day before on an international arrest warrant issued by a district court in Frankfurt, Germany, said federal court spokesman Gunther Meilinger. The 53-year-old German woman is wanted on 16 counts of fraud and three counts of embezzlement, he said.

The charges include an allegation that she failed to pay for a breast enhancement operation performed on her in 2004, Meilinger said. Most of the German charges, however, stem from phony real estate deals that Dorothee Burkhart allegedly conducted between 2000 and 2006.

"It is my opinion that the defendant's criminal spree was motivated by his rage against Americans and that by setting these fires the defendant intended to harm and terrorize as many residents of the city and county of Los Angeles as possible," Nordskog wrote.

A search of Burkhart's Hollywood apartment found newspaper clippings about the Los Angeles fires and articles from Germany reporting similar car fires in Frankfurt, Germany in September, 2011, the investigator said.

"It is my opinion based on my experience that it is highly likely the defendant has a history of setting arson fires in Germany before he came to the United States," Nordskog wrote.

Burkhart's mother is scheduled for another extradition hearing Friday, while he is due back in court for arraignment on January 24. Meanwhile, both Burkharts are housed in a Los Angeles jail.

@highlight

NEW: A Canadian doctor says she was part of a team examining Harry Burkhart in 2010

@highlight

NEW: Diagnosis: "autism, severe anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder and depression"

@highlight

Burkhart is also suspected in a German arson probe, officials say

@highlight

Prosecutors believe the German national set a string of fires in Los Angeles
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Police arrested another teen Thursday, the sixth suspect jailed in connection with the gang rape of a 15-year-old girl on a northern California high school campus.

Jose Carlos Montano, 18, was arrested on charges of felony rape, rape in concert with force, and penetration with a foreign object, said Richmond Police Lt. Mark Gagan.

Montano was arrested Thursday evening in San Pablo, California, a small town about two miles from the city of Richmond, where the crime took place.

Montano, who was held in lieu of $1.3 million bail, is accused of taking part in what police said was a 2½-hour assault on the Richmond High School campus.

Police said as many as 10 people were involved in the rape in a dimly lit back alley at the school, while another 10 people watched without calling 911.

The victim was taken to the hospital in critical condition, but was released Wednesday.

Four other teenage suspects were arraigned Thursday on charges connected to the rape.

Cody Ray Smith, described by the court as older than 14, pleaded not guilty to charges of rape with a foreign object and rape by force.

Two other juveniles, Ari Abdallah Morales and Marcelles James Peter, appeared with Smith at the Contra Costa County Superior Court, but did not enter a plea. The court described Morales as younger than 16, and did not give an age for Peter.

All three juveniles, who wore bulletproof vests at the hearing, were charged as adults.

A fourth person, Manuel Ortega, 19, appeared separately without an attorney and did not enter a plea. He did not wear a protective vest.

Another person, Salvador Rodriguez, 21, was arrested Tuesday night, but he was not in court Thursday.

@highlight

Another arrest made in gang rape outside California school

@highlight

Investigators say up to 20 people took part or stood and watched the assault

@highlight

Four suspects appeared in court Thursday; three wore bulletproof vests
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Thousands on Saturday fled the area in southwestern Ivory Coast where attacks left seven U.N. peacekeepers and eight civilians dead, according to a U.N. official.

One attack occurred late Thursday and into Friday near Para Village, not far from the west-central African nation's border with Liberia, according to the United Nations.

Humanitarian organizations reported Saturday they were expecting about 4,000 people in Tai, said Remi Dourlot, a spokesman for the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. Several hundred had arrived by midday Saturday in the town, which is on the edge of Tai National Park.

Another 35 families crossed the Ivory Coast's southwest border into U.N. refugee camps in Liberia, and humanitarian groups said hundreds of others had been pushed south by the violence, according to Dourlot.

The movement comes after blue-helmeted peacekeepers -- who were in the area because of threats against civilians -- came under attack, the United Nations said in a statement.

Besides the U.N. peacekeepers, humanitarian groups reported eight civilians died in violence, said Dourlot.

U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Friday called on the government of Ivory Coast "to do its utmost to identify the perpetrators and hold them accountable." He added that he understood other peacekeepers remained in danger.

"Even tonight, after the attack, more than 40 peacekeepers remain with the villagers in this remote region to protect them from this armed group," Ban said.

U.N. Operation in Cote d'Ivoire and Ivory Coast troops have increased their presence in the area, Dourlot said Saturday. Members of the U.N. humanitarian affairs office have deployed to Tai to coordinate relief efforts there with local authorities.

Clinton urges Ivory Coast dialogue

A spokeswoman for the U.N. mission in Ivory Coast said Friday's incident was the first attack on peacekeepers since they entered the country in 2004.

Sylvie van den Wildenberg, in a telephone interview from her office in Abidjan, said the remaining forces were continuing to protect area residents, "who are living in a very difficult terrain -- their villages scattered."

Van den Wildenberg said it was not clear who was responsible for the attack, which occurred mid-afternoon. "This is an area where you have so many different types of armed people," she said. "People have different aims and different reasons to carry arms and to perpetrate attack. So this is a very complex environment. We can't extrapolate. We just can't fingerpoint any group."

The peacekeepers were on a reconnaissance patrol because U.N. officials had heard rumors several days earlier of armed men in the area threatening to attack a village, she said.

U.N. peacekeepers remained in Ivory Coast after the 2010 presidential election, when the country was thrown into crisis after incumbent President Laurent Gbagbo refused to acknowledge defeat to former Prime Minister Alassane Ouattara. The latter was sworn in on May 21. Gbagbo is in custody at the Hague, accused of crimes against humanity during post-election violence that killed thousands.

According to the United Nations, its peacekeeping force in Ivory Coast as of April 30 included nearly 11,000 uniformed personnel, as well as several hundred international civilian personnel, local staff and volunteers. They provide technical, logistical and security support to the government.

CNN's Christabelle Fombu and Tom Watkins contributed to this report.

@highlight

Humanitarian groups expect 4,000 refugees in one camp, a U.N. official says

@highlight

Others have fled across the border to U.N. camps in Liberia, he says

@highlight

This follows attacks that killed 7 U.N. peacekeepers and 8 civilians
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Four groups that advocate for immigrant rights said Thursday they will challenge Arizona's new immigration law, which allows police to ask anyone for proof of legal U.S. residency.

The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the American Civil Liberties Union, the ACLU of Arizona and the National Immigration Law Center held a news conference Thursday in Phoenix to announce the legal challenge.

"The Arizona community can be assured that a vigorous and sophisticated legal challenge will be mounted, in advance of SB1070's implementation, seeking to prevent this unconstitutional and discriminatory law from ever taking effect," said Thomas A. Saenz, president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, known as MALDEF.

"This law will only make the rampant racial profiling of Latinos that is already going on in Arizona much worse," said Alessandra Soler Meetze, executive director of the ACLU of Arizona. "If this law were implemented, citizens would effectively have to carry 'their papers' at all times to avoid arrest. It is a low point in modern America when a state law requires police to demand documents from people on the street."

Republican Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law last week. It goes into effect 90 days after the close of the legislative session, which has not been determined.

Brewer and others who support the law say it does not involve racial profiling or any other illegal acts.

"Racial profiling is illegal," Brewer said after signing the bill Friday. "It is illegal in America, and it's certainly illegal in Arizona."

The National Coalition Of Latino Clergy & Christian Leaders said Sunday it also planned legal action.

"Our churches and pastors in Arizona are outraged about the significant threat this anti-immigrant law will have in the lives of Arizona's Latinos," said the Rev. Miguel Rivera, the group's chairman.

"This policy violates the rights of American citizens, particularly the fast-growing Latino population of Arizona, by eliminating the basic right of due process, which we are certain that the courts will agree," Rivera said.

The law requires immigrants to carry their alien registration documents at all times and requires police to question people if there is reason to suspect they're in the United States illegally. The measure makes it a state crime to live or travel through Arizona illegally.

It also targets those who hire illegal immigrant day laborers or knowingly transport them.

In addition to signing the law, Brewer also issued an executive order that requires training for local officers on how to implement the law without engaging in racial profiling or discrimination.

"This training will include what does and does not constitute reasonable suspicion that a person is not legally present in the United States," she said.

Some officials in Arizona have expressed their displeasure with the measure. Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon said Thursday that he is "very disappointed."

He said he is concerned that calls to boycott Arizona businesses and tourism will harm the state.

"I'm very incredulous that our state leaders -- our so-called leaders -- have allowed our state to be split when we're suffering economic hardships," Gordon told CNN.

Other critics say the bill is unconstitutional and will trample residents' civil rights.

"Quite simply, this law is a civil rights disaster and an insult to American values," said Mary Bauer, legal director of the Southern Poverty Law Center. "No one in our country should be required to produce their 'papers' or demand to prove their innocence. What kind of country are we becoming?"

But a national Republican leader said Thursday that Arizona is just filling a void left by the federal government.

"I think the people of Arizona have a right to pass their laws under the 10th Amendment," House Minority Leader John Boehner said. "I think it is clearly a result of the federal government's failure to secure our border and to enforce our laws."

Gordon said the real solution is comprehensive immigration reform that would allow more immigrants to legally enter the United States.

"This law doesn't accomplish that," he said. "It doesn't do anything on that."

President Obama has called on Congress to pass a comprehensive immigration reform law this year. CNN has learned that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and other top Democratic senators will unveil the outlines of that legislation late Thursday.

But Boehner said at a briefing Thursday that "there's not a chance" that Congress will approve the measure this year, especially after the recent passage of a health care reform bill.

"I've been out here for a little while and know that in the middle of an election year, after we've had bills like health care shoved down our throats and the process twisted, tortured, pressured, bribed, you cannot do a serious piece of legislation of this size, with this difficulty, in this environment," he said. "And it's nothing more than a cynical ploy to try and engage voters, some segment of voters, to show up in this November's elections."

The Arizona measure has drawn sharp criticism from the Mexican government, which issued an advisory to its citizens this week. The secretary general of the Organization of American States and some member states also expressed concerns about the law Wednesday.

"This is an issue of concern to all citizens of the Americas, beginning with the citizens of the United States, a country with a very rich tradition of immigration and respect for immigrants who have come to lead a better life," OAS Secretary General Jose Miguel Insulza said. "The rich tradition we all admire, of recognizing immigrants in the United States, has been harmed, undermined."

The uproar caused by the law has even spread to the nation's pastime. Protesters plan to demonstrate against the Arizona Diamondbacks baseball team Thursday outside Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois.

In Arizona, two popular singers also will voice their opposition.

Grammy Award-winning Colombian singer Shakira is scheduled to meet with Gordon on Thursday evening.

Singer-songwriter Linda Ronstadt, an Arizona native of Mexican and German descent, also attended the Thursday afternoon rally with the immigrant rights groups.

"What Gov. Brewer signed into law last week is a piece of legislation that threatens the very heart of this great state," Ronstadt said. "We must come together and stop SB1070 from pitting neighbor against neighbor to the detriment of us all."

Federal officials estimate there are about 10.8 million illegal immigrants in the United States, of which about 6.6 million come from Mexico and 760,000 from the rest of Latin America. About 1 million come from Asia.

Arizona, which is on the Mexican border, has about 460,000 undocumented immigrants, the federal government says. At least five other states, including California, with 2.6 million, have more undocumented immigrants, the government says.

The other states with more illegal immigrants than Arizona are Texas, Florida, New York and Georgia.

A Pew Research Center survey late last year found that Americans believe Latinos are discriminated against more than any other major racial or ethnic group in American society.

The Pew survey also indicated that about one-third of the nation's Latinos say they or someone they know has experienced discrimination. About 9 percent said they had been stopped by police or other authorities and asked about their immigration status in the year before the survey.

Fifty-seven percent of those surveyed said they worried that they, a family member or a close friend could be deported.

@highlight

NEW: 4 groups announce legal challenge in Phoenix

@highlight

American Civil Liberties Union, ACLU of Arizona, National Immigration Law Center slam law

@highlight

Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund also objects to it

@highlight

They say law encourages racial profiling, but supporters say it doesn't involve any illegal acts
***END_OF_STORY***
While Labor Day is the unofficial end of summer, it's also the unofficial start to the campaign season.

That means politicking will be on the rise, especially as control of the Senate is at stake as well as control of 36 state houses. So, if you turn on your TV, expect to see more -- and nastier -- political advertisements. In fact, Elizabeth Wilner, senior vice president of Kantar Ad Intelligence, says as much as $3.4 billion is going to be spent on advertising this midterm season.

The race with the most at stake is the one for U.S. Senate in Kentucky. This is not just one of the only Senate races Republicans are at risk of losing, but also the race where the top Senate Republican is at risk of losing his job.

The Republican leader of the Senate, Mitch McConnell, is in a fight for his political life against Alison Lundergan Grimes, a relatively inexperienced Democratic politician who was just 8 years old when McConnell started his first term in the Senate in 1985.

McConnell, a shrewd politician, prolific fundraiser and expert campaigner, has had numerous missteps, making this race even more interesting. His troubles include a flubbed campaign ad, a campaign manager who was a little too honest, the recent resignation of that manager and a caught-on-tape moment.

Grimes, meanwhile, has also stumbled when talking about foreign policy, and questions have arisen about a possible sweetheart deal involving her campaign bus.

This is one of the most interesting and critical races in the country.

How Mitch McConnell crushed the tea party

Here are four other races that are worth watching:

Wisconsin governor: The Wisconsin governor's race has many national repercussions, as Republican Gov. Scott Walker is locked in a tight re-election battle against former Trek bicycle executive Mary Burke.

Economic policy is a central component of this campaign.

Walker has gained prominence in conservative politics for governing as a fiscal conservative and making deep cuts to spending by cutting public union workers' pensions. He also drastically limited workers' bargaining rights. Meanwhile, Democrats, backed by labor unions, are again fighting to defeat Walker -- they forced a recall two years ago that Walker won -- to move forward on more Democratic economic policies, including lifting the minimum wage.

Walker, who is also being investigated for alleged illegal campaign coordination with outside groups, is considered a potential 2016 Republican presidential candidate, but if he loses his gubernatorial race, his path to the presidency will be very, very narrow.

Democrats and Republicans understand the stakes, and President Barack Obama traveled to Wisconsin on Labor Day to speak at a union event in a trip packed with political symbolism.

Walker, Burke tied up in new poll

U.S. Senate, Louisiana: Democratic Sen. Mary Landrieu always has tough races, and her fourth bid for the Senate seat is no exception. Republican Rep. Bill Cassidy is the person who is giving Landrieu another difficult run.

Cassidy is tying Landrieu to Obama in this conservative-leaning state while painting her as a corrupt Washington insider. Landrieu, meanwhile, is attempting to paint her Senate tenure as a picture of independence.

Most interestingly, a political roller coaster is possible. If Landrieu or Cassidy doesn't receive more than 50% of the vote on Election Day in November, a winner won't be named until that state's December 6 election. There's a chance the Louisiana race, and the balance of the Senate, might be dragged out until December.

Sen. Mary Landrieu to reimburse Senate for charter flight

National Democrats go after Cassidy on Medicare

U.S. Senate, Iowa: When popular Sen. Tom Harkin decided to retire, Democrats had a small panic attack as this solidly Democratic seat was now in play. But when Rep. Bruce Braley jumped in, Democrats' confidence was restored.

But then that confidence has been shaken as Braley has run a gaffe-prone campaign that involves digs at farmers and meandering chickens. His missteps -- combined with the surprising strength of Republican candidate Joni Ernst, who has run a great campaign that began with a breakout performance in the crowded Republican primary -- make this a possible and unexpected pickup for Republicans.

Climate group attacks Ernst on tax pledge, not climate

Florida's 2nd Congressional District: There is little to no chance that Republicans will lose control of the House of Representatives, and some race analyzers say the GOP will even pick up seats. But this race could be a bright spot for Democrats.

Even in what is expected to be a difficult year for Democrats, Democratic candidate Gwen Graham could pull out a victory in this Republican-leaning district of Tallahassee and the central part of the Florida Panhandle.

Graham has some advantages. She has no problem getting money -- raising more than Southerland -- and she has a Florida-famous last name. Her father is longtime Sen. Bob Graham, giving her access to his connections and deep knowledge of running successful campaigns.

Key races in 2014

Complete midterm coverage

@highlight

Labor Day is the unofficial end of summer and the unofficial start to campaign season

@highlight

As much as $3.4 billion could be spent on advertising for this midterm election

@highlight

Here are five must-follow races for these midterms
***END_OF_STORY***
Gaza City (CNN) -- An Italian humanitarian activist and journalist who was kidnapped in Gaza has been found dead and one person is in custody, the Hamas Interior Ministry said Friday in a statement.

Police investigating the case learned where 36-year-old Vittorio Arrigoni was being held and went to the location, where they found the body, the statement said.

An autopsy revealed that he had been killed hours before police entered the location, it said.

Medical sources said his body was taken to Shifa Hospital in Gaza.

The grisly outcome came hours after a video was posted on YouTube showing a man identified by his colleagues as Arrigoni. A black blindfold covered his eyes; his right cheek appeared red as though it had been hit; his hands appeared to be bound behind his back. A hand belonging to someone outside of the view of the lens appeared to be grasping his hair on the back and pointing the captive's head toward the camera.

Arabic writing scrolled over the video threatened that Arrigoni would be killed if Hesham al-Saeedni, who has been held for nearly a year by Hamas, were not released within 30 hours of 11 a.m. Thursday. Al-Saeedni is the leader of a group that may have been inspired by al Qaeda, said Alfredo Tradardi, the Italy coordinator for the International Solidarity Movement, where Arrigoni was a volunteer.

The writing calls Italy an "infidel nation whose armies are still present in Muslim lands."

Tradardi, who had initially expressed optimism that his co-worker would be released unharmed, told CNN in a telephone interview that the outcome underscores the need for progress to be made toward Middle East peace. "Now, we have to work more deeply to try to change the foreign policy of our government, of the European government, of the United States government in order that they could press Israel to solve the problem of the Palestinians."

Arrigoni had been active in the Palestinian cause for nearly a decade, and had been allied with the International Solidarity Movement for more than two years, "monitoring human rights violations by Israel, supporting the Palestinian popular resistance against the Israeli occupation and disseminating information about the situation in Gaza to his home country of Italy," the non-governmental organization said in a written statement.

He was granted honorary citizenship for his work for the Palestinian people, the statement said.

"Vittorio Arrigoni is a hero of Palestine," said a statement released by Khalil Shaheen, head of the economics and social rights department at the Palestinian Centre for Human Rights. "He was available everywhere to support all the poor people, the victims."

Arrigoni's colleagues last saw him about 8 p.m. Wednesday near the port in Gaza City, said Joe Catron, a member of the International Solidarity Movement.

"I think he was just the first foreigner they ran across," Catron said about the abductors. "It is ironic they happened to come across someone who has dedicated a part of his life to helping Palestine."

Arrigoni, who was also working as a freelance journalist, was from the northern Italian region of Lombardy.

Journalist Talal Abu-Rahmi, CNN's Yasmin Amer, Tom Watkins and Erin McLaughlin contributed to this story

@highlight

NEW: Autopsy indicates he had been dead for hours before police arrived

@highlight

YouTube video appears to show the activist bound and blindfolded

@highlight

The activist and freelance journalist was from the Lombardy region in northern Italy
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Renowned radio personality Casey Kasem is in critical condition at a hospital in western Washington, a spokesman for St. Anthony Hospital told CNN in a written statement Thursday.

"Mr. Kasem is alert and appears comfortable at this time," Scott Thompson, a spokesman for the facility in Gig Harbor added.

The 82-year-old former host of "American Top 40" and "Casey's Top 40" is receiving antibiotics through IVs, blood pressure support medicine and care for his bed sores, Thompson said.

Kasem was admitted to the hospital Sunday after one of his daughters and an ambulance crew retrieved him from a home where he and his wife were staying with friends.

"Any further updates on Mr. Kasem's condition will be at the discretion and approval of his children," Thompson said.

Danny Deraney, a representative of daughter Kerri Kasem, told CNN that members of the family, including Casey Kasem's brother, were flying to Washington. When asked if they feared Casey Kasem might die, Deraney said it could be his last moments or he could get better. Deraney clarified that he never meant that Kasem's health was failing as was reported by several media outlets.

On Thursday, a message appeared on the Twitter account of Deraney PR, saying that Kasem was in "stable condition." A patient can be listed as both critical and stable, if his condition is poor but not deteriorating further.

The radio icon has been at the center of a family feud between Jean Kasem, his wife of 34 years, and his three children from his first marriage.

Kerri Kasem; her sister, Julie; and their brother, Mike Kasem, have contended since last year that Jean Kasem has prevented the three siblings from visiting their father.

Kasem has Lewy body disease, the most common type of progressive dementia after Alzheimer's, and has been bed-ridden for some time.

He had been at a facility in Santa Monica, California, before Jean Kasem took him to Washington state after his daughter Kerri Kasem won temporary conservatorship over her father's care.

Last week, a Washington court granted Kerri Kasem the right to visit her father one hour a day and to have him examined by a doctor.

On Friday afternoon, a Kitsap County judge will continue the hearing and get an update on the situation, Deraney said.

Deraney expected the judge to rule on whether Jean Kasem would have to let Kerri Kasem have more input on where her father lives and who cares for him.

Casey Kasem, who was also the voice of Shaggy in the cartoon "Scooby-Doo" and an announcer for NBC, retired in 2009.

Kasem's daughter wins additional powers in court

CNN's Jane Caffrey contributed to this report.

@highlight

The radio personality was taken to a hospital Sunday

@highlight

Spokesman for hospital says Casey Kasem being treated for wounds, blood pressure issues

@highlight

He had been at a friend's home in Washington state after his wife took him there

@highlight

She has been feuding with three stepchildren over the radio icon's care
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- If you travel by plane and arriving on time makes a difference, try to book on Hawaiian Airlines. In 2012, passengers got where they needed to go without delay on the carrier more than nine times out of 10, according to a study released on Monday.

In fact, Hawaiian got even better from 2011, when it had a 92.8% on-time performance. Last year, it improved to 93.4%.

The Airline Quality Rankings Report looks at the 14 largest U.S. airlines and is based on an analysis of U.S. Department of Transportation figures. It's co-authored by Brent Bowen, the head of the Department of Aviation Technology at Purdue University, and Dean Headley of Wichita State.

In addition to on-time performance, the joint project looks at three other categories: rate of consumer complaints, mishandled bags and denied boarding performance.

At a time when U.S. airlines are a whipping post for passenger complaints about crowded flights, tight seats, costly tickets and unsatisfactory service, there is a glimmer of hope.

Eight airlines improved their on-time arrival performance in 2012. Nine of the 14 rated had an on-time arrival percentage of more than 80%.

ExpressJet and American Airlines had the worst on-time performance (76.9%) last year, according to the data gathered in the 23rd annual report.

Virgin America had the best baggage handling rate of all the airlines (0.87 misplaced bags per 1,000 passengers.) American Eagle showed improvement from 2011 but still came in last, fumbling baggage at a rate of 5.80 mishandled bags per 1,000 passengers.

When it came to complaints last year, Southwest again had the lowest consumer rate (0.25 per 100,000 passengers) while the distinction of being the airline with the highest consumer complaint rate went to United Airlines (4.24 per 100,000.)

Seven of the world's most entertaining airports

Boeing does 'final' battery test on 787 Dreamliner

FAA delays closures of 149 control towers

@highlight

Hawaiian Airlines again lands at No. 1 in on-time performance

@highlight

The Airline Quality Rankings Report looks at the 14 largest U.S. airlines

@highlight

ExpressJet and American Airlines had the worst on-time performance

@highlight

Virgin America had the best baggage handling; Southwest had lowest complaint rate
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN)For the second time during his papacy, Pope Francis has announced a new group of bishops and archbishops set to become cardinals -- and they come from all over the world.

Pope Francis said Sunday that he would hold a meeting of cardinals on February 14 "during which I will name 15 new Cardinals who, coming from 13 countries from every continent, manifest the indissoluble links between the Church of Rome and the particular Churches present in the world," according to Vatican Radio.

New cardinals are always important because they set the tone in the church and also elect the next pope, CNN Senior Vatican Analyst John L. Allen said. They are sometimes referred to as the princes of the Catholic Church.

The new cardinals come from countries such as Ethiopia, New Zealand and Myanmar.

"This is a pope who very much wants to reach out to people on the margins, and you clearly see that in this set," Allen said. "You're talking about cardinals from typically overlooked places, like Cape Verde, the Pacific island of Tonga, Panama, Thailand, Uruguay."

But for the second time since Francis' election, no Americans made the list.

"Francis' pattern is very clear: He wants to go to the geographical peripheries rather than places that are already top-heavy with cardinals," Allen said.

Christopher Bellitto, a professor of church history at Kean University in New Jersey, noted that Francis announced his new slate of cardinals on the Catholic Feast of the Epiphany, which commemorates the visit of the Magi to Jesus' birthplace in Bethlehem.

"On feast of three wise men from far away, the Pope's choices for cardinal say that every local church deserves a place at the big table."

In other words, Francis wants a more decentralized church and wants to hear reform ideas from small communities that sit far from Catholicism's power centers, Bellitto said.

That doesn't mean Francis is the first pontiff to appoint cardinals from the developing world, though. Beginning in the 1920s, an increasing number of Latin American churchmen were named cardinals, and in the 1960s, St. John XXIII, whom Francis canonized last year, appointed the first cardinals from Japan, the Philippines and Africa.

In addition to the 15 new cardinals Francis named on Sunday, five retired archbishops and bishops will also be honored as cardinals.

Last year, Pope Francis appointed 19 new cardinals, including bishops from Haiti and Burkina Faso.

CNN's Daniel Burke and Christabelle Fombu contributed to this report.

@highlight

The 15 new cardinals will be installed on February 14

@highlight

They come from countries such as Myanmar and Tonga

@highlight

No Americans made the list this time or the previous time in Francis' papacy
***END_OF_STORY***
HAMILTON, Bermuda (CNN) -- Four Chinese nationals of Uyghur ethnicity who had been held at the U.S. military's Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, detention facility have been resettled in Bermuda, officials said Thursday.

Attorney General Eric Holder says the U.S. is "extremely grateful to the government of Bermuda."

"Above all, this was a humanitarian act," Bermudan Premier Ewart Brown told CNN in an interview at his Cabinet office in Hamilton, Bermuda. "We don't see it as quid pro quo."

The four were twice cleared for release -- once by the Bush administration and again this year, according to a Justice Department statement.

They were among 17 Uyghur detainees at the facility set up to hold terror suspects.

The four were flown by private plane Wednesday night from Cuba to Bermuda and were accompanied by U.S. and Bermudan representatives as well as their attorneys, according to Susan Baker Manning, part of the men's legal team.

President Obama has pledged to close the Guantanamo facility, raising questions of what will happen to the more than 200 remaining detainees. A political backlash against bringing any of the detainees to the United States has increased the focus on sending them to other countries.

Brown said he read an article on the issue of the Guantanamo Bay detainees' fates in The Washington Post while he was in Washington for a White House meeting in May. He said he decided to put an offer to the U.S. government "on the table."

He said Bermuda, a British colony, told London of its intentions, but not until late in the process. Britain must approve the transfer for it to be permanent, Brown said, adding that he believes the issue may raise tension between Bermuda and Britain.

The issue is controversial because of China's opposition to the Uyghurs being sent to any country but China.

Uyghurs are a Muslim minority from the Xinjiang province of far-west China. The 17 Uyghurs had left China and made their way to Afghanistan, where they settled in a camp with other Uyghurs opposed to the Chinese government, the Justice Department said in its statement.

They left Afghanistan after U.S. bombings began in the area in October 2001 and were apprehended in Pakistan, the statement said.  Watch concerns about resettling the Uyghur detainees »

"According to available information, these individuals did not travel to Afghanistan with the intent to take any hostile action against the United States," the statement said.

Manning said the 17 were picked up as a matter of circumstance and never had terrorist training.

They left China because they did not agree with the government, she told CNN.

However, China alleges the men are part of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement -- a group the U.S. State Department considers a terrorist organization -- that operates in the Xinjiang region. East Turkestan is another name for Xinjiang.

China on Thursday urged the United States to hand over all 17 of the Uyghurs instead of sending them elsewhere. The Chinese statement followed an offer by Palau, a Pacific island nation, to accept the Uyghur detainees.

The Xinjiang region of 20 million people is largely populated by ethnic Uyghurs and other Muslim minorities who have traditionally opposed Beijing's rule and clamored for greater autonomy.

A senior U.S. administration official told CNN the State Department is working on a final agreement with Palau to settle the matter of the 13 remaining Uyghur detainees.

Issues to be worked out include how to transfer the Uyghurs to Palau and how much money the United States would give the men for resettlement, the official said.

The official said the average in such cases is $100,000 per person.

The United States will not send Uyghur detainees cleared for release back to China out of concern that they would be tortured by Chinese authorities. China has said no returned Uyghurs would be tortured.

Palau said it will take in the ethnic Uyghur detainees for humanitarian reasons and because of the "special relationship" between Palau and the United States.

Palau, with a population of about 20,000, is about 1,000 miles (1,600 kilometers) southeast of Manila in the Philippines and about 4,600 miles (7,400 kilometers) west of Hawaii. It has received nearly $900 million in U.S. aid since independence in 1994, according to congressional auditors, and depends on Washington for its defense.

In 2006, five other Uyghur detainees were transferred to Albania, according to the Justice Department, which said it has no reports they took part in any post-resettlement criminal behavior or terrorist activities.

Since 2002, more than 540 detainees have departed Guantanamo for other countries, including Albania, Algeria, Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Bahrain, Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, France, Great Britain, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Libya, Maldives, Mauritania, Morocco, Pakistan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Sudan, Tajikistan, Turkey, Uganda, the United Kingdom and Yemen, the Justice Department said.

CNN's Brian Vitagliano and Don Lemon contributed to this report.

@highlight

NEW: Bermudan premier: "Above all, this was a humanitarian act"

@highlight

Uyghurs are native Chinese Muslims; the detainees were apprehended in Pakistan

@highlight

China urges U.S. to hand over all 17 Uyghurs held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba

@highlight

Official says U.S. still negotiating with Palau to take remaining 13 Uyghurs
***END_OF_STORY***
Kathmandu, Nepal (CNN) -- A ferocious leopard may have killed 15 people in Nepal in a 15-month span, its latest victim a 4-year-old boy that the creature dragged away into the jungle to eat.

The head of boy was found in the forest a kilometer from his home Saturday morning, said Kamal Prasad Kharel, the police chief of the Baitadi district, an area about 600 kilometers (373 miles) west of Kathmandu.

The grisly discovery, which came after teams of people searched for the child, marks the 15th victim in the past 15 months in that remote district in western Nepal.

The police chief suspects that a single man-eating leopard is responsible for the deaths. If not, there are at most two of the man-eating creatures around, he believes.

Maheshwor Dhakal, an ecologist at the Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation in Kathmandu, agreed that it is unusual to find more than one or two man-eating animals in one area. Most leopards live on wild prey.

More human victims could also be expected if there were more than one or two man-eaters around, he said.

"Since human blood has more salt than animal blood, once wild animals get the taste of salty blood they do not like other animals like deer," Dhakal said.

Kharel said he feared the actual number of people killed by the leopard could be higher than 15, because others have lost their life to leopard attacks in Uttarkhand state in northern India, which borders Baitadi district.

"It could be the same leopard," he said.

Of the 15 victims in Nepal so far, two-thirds are children below the age of 10. The others are older children and a 29-year-old woman who had gone to collect fodder for domestic animals in the nearby forest, a common practice in Nepal.

"No adult male has been killed," Kharel said.

All the victims are from villages bordering the dense forests in the district, he said.

After killing its victim, the leopard takes the body away into the forest to eat.

"In the case of the children it just leaves behind the head, eating everything, but some parts of the adult body are left behind because it cannot finish it," Kharel added.

The district administration has announced a Rs. 25,000 (about $300) reward to anyone who captures or kills the leopard.

The local administration has sought to raise public awareness of the dangers of going alone into nearby forests and has mobilized the police, armed police force and local people who have licensed guns to hunt for the animal.

Controlling this particular leopard has been a challenge for the wildlife officials in Kathmandu.

"We are sending a veterinary doctor to the district to understand the situation," Dhakal, the ecologist, said. "There is no alternative but to kill the leopard."

The chief district administrator has granted permission for this particular leopard to be killed. Normally, it is illegal to kill wild animals.

Leopards are common in the low mountain areas, as compared to the high Himalayas, across the country.

While cases of leopards killing domestic animals are common, and there are sometimes instances of leopards killing people in Nepal, this case is "extreme," Dhakal said.

@highlight

A 4-year-old boy is the latest victim of a man-eating leopard, a local police chief says

@highlight

He suspects one leopard is behind the deaths of 15 people in the past 15 months

@highlight

A reward has been offered to anyone who captures or kills the man-eating creature

@highlight

Leopards are common in low mountain areas of Nepal but usually eat wild prey like deer
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Kyle White now has two pieces of metal to wear -- one, a bracelet inscribed with the names of his six comrades killed in an ambush in Afghanistan, the other, a Medal of Honor given to him for his valor that ensured that death toll wasn't higher.

Speaking minutes after President Barack Obama gave him the highest military honor, White insisted the two emblems are equally significant. They both represent his family on that day six years ago -- the seven others who, like him, survived as well as those who did not.

The former Army sergeant said Tuesday he owes it to these men, whom he calls "my heroes," to live his life well, even now that he's left the military, and with honor.

"Though I am still uncomfortable with hearing my name and the word 'hero' in the same sentence, I am now ready for the challenge of proudly wearing this piece of blue fabric and carved metal with the same reverence that I wear the bracelet. And I vow to live up to the responsibility of doing so," White said.

Not long before, Obama recalled White's bravery and that of his colleagues.

The President paid tribute to those who died that fall day in Afghanistan and those who survived. They had done everything their country could ask for and more.

"Kyle, members of Chosen Company, you did your duty," Obama said. "And now it's time for America to do ours."

White himself insisted that the Medal of Honor cannot really be an individual award, calling it "a testament to the trust we have in each other and our leaders."

Still, the President said that he deserved to be singled out. A high school freshman when the Twin Towers fell on September 11, 2001, White joined the Army and was just 20 years old and 21 months into his military service when he faced the ultimate test.

He aced it, and in doing so represented the best of what Obama called the "9/11 generation (which) has proven itself to be one of America's greatest."

"Today," the President said to a crowd that included White, his parents and many of his former comrades, "we pay tribute to a soldier who embodies the courage of his generation."

Attacked in 'ambush alley'

On Tuesday, White dressed in full uniform. But on most other weekdays, he now wears a suit to his job as an investment analyst at a bank in Charlotte, North Carolina -- a job that he's admitted to Obama, with a laugh, is less exciting than his previous job in the Army.

The Washington state native joined up after high school, following the lead of his father, a former Army Special Forces member. His service had, like many other members of the military, earned him a ticket to Afghanistan as his platoon's radio telephone operator.

He was there on November 9, 2007, walking back from a meeting with elders with his unit of 14 and a squad of Afghan army soldiers.

"They knew not to stop, they had to keep moving," Obama recalled of the group walking single-file with a cliff to their right and a steep, rocky slope to their left. "They were heading into an area known as ambush alley."

In an interview prior to the award ceremony, White told CNN how the group walked "down this little incline and looking into the valley, (when) I hear this single shot. Then two shots, then the echo, then fully automatic gunfire."

Taking so much fire, members of his patrol were separated as they tried to take cover. White was finishing off his first magazine and beginning to load another one when an rocket-propelled grenade exploded, knocking him unconscious.

Moments after he came to, an enemy round hit a rock just inches from his head. The shrapnel and rock fragments cut his face.

Dazed, he struggled to take in what was happening. He and four others had been separated from the other soldiers, who'd jumped from a cliff. White administered first aid to one wounded soldier using the only cover available: a single tree. That soldier would survive.

It was at that point in the attack that White realized his radio wasn't working.

He looked out and saw a member of his patrol about 30 feet away whose wounds were so bad that he could not move. White ran toward him, braving enemy fire.

White was able to drag the wounded man back to the tree.

But the man's injuries were too severe, and he died.

Risking death, again and again

White continued to risk himself to help his fellow warriors, again running from cover into enemy fire to reach the platoon leader. White told the military publication Stars and Stripes that he could see the leader's helmet and assault pack, but he couldn't tell whether the leader was alive. White had to see, he said.

White crawled toward the man. It was too late. He was dead.

White figured he would be killed. But he would do what he was trained to do. He would carry out his duty.

"It was never a choice," he explained to CNN. "I told myself from the beginning that I was going to be killed, you know... just the amount of fire ... I'm not gonna make it through this."

But he kept focused. The soldier White had dragged to the tree earlier was hit again, this time in the knee, so the White wrapped his belt around the man's leg, creating a tourniquet.

Then White found a working radio on a deceased comrade and called for artillery and helicopter gunships to help.

Finally, maybe, there could be hope. But then a friendly mortar round landed near White.

"I remember just red hot chunks of metal like the size of my palm just flinging by your head," he told Stars and Stripes.

Suffering a concussion, White managed to hang on, waiting for helicopters to evacuate him and others with him that day. When help arrived, he told his rescuers to put the other wounded aboard first.

A soldier, changed

Speaking with National Public Radio this week, White said the experience -- from the violence to the wait -- seemed like "forever." And it hasn't entirely gone away, all these years later.

"It's something you still think about every day," White said. "I still have these images from that day burned into my head. But it's something, as time goes on, it gets easier."

But something inside him changed, he said.

"Even to this day, you know, I can't say if it was something good or bad. ..." he told NPR. "And that was pretty much the reason why I decided to leave the Army."

White first returned home and trained other paratrooopers. When it came time for White to re-enlist, he thought hard about whether doing so felt right. He decided against it because he doubted that he could devote his complete heart and mind to it, he told NPR.

It was unacceptable to him to continue in the service and then, perhaps, be deployed to Afghanistan. Service members deserve a leader who is all in, he explained.

Obama called him on February 10 to tell him he'd be given the Medal of Honor. He's the 10th recipient of that award for his actions in Afghanistan, and the seventh surviving recipient. Four service members received the Medal of Honor -- all posthumously -- for actions in the war in Iraq, according to the Congressional Medal of Honor Society.

In a brief statement to reporters after Tuesday's ceremony, White called the Medal of Honor "a symbol of the responsibility all soldiers knowingly face when they depart for distant lands in defense of the nation, a responsibility that locks us all in the bonds of brotherhood."

As such, White couldn't help but think about his brothers in arms.

"Without the team," he said, "there could be no Medal of Honor. That is why I wear this medal for my team."

Read the transcript of the White House ceremony

24 minority veterans receive long overdue Medal of Honor

See Kyle White's Army profile

CNN's Barbara Starr contributed to this report.

@highlight

NEW: Kyle White: "Without this team, there would be no Medal of Honor"

@highlight

NEW: He vows to "live up to the responsibility" of having the top military award

@highlight

NEW: Obama calls White "a soldier who embodies the courage of his generation"

@highlight

The Army vet, then 20, braved enemy fire to save his wounded comrades in Afghanistan
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Like a stereotypical beauty pageant, it looks like thin will be in at the world's largest annual gadget convention next week in Las Vegas.

At the 2012 International Consumer Electronics Show, computer makers will be pushing a new breed of ultra-thin, ultra-light laptops amid a sea of razor-thin smartphones and tablets.

Last year, 140,000 people in the technology industry convened at the Las Vegas Convention Center to mingle and gawk at cutting-edge hardware. The organizers expect to welcome at least that many people next week.

Electronics makers use CES as a platform to show the types of products they plan to release in the coming year. The compact disc player, high-definition television and Blu-ray each debuted at past conventions. Decades since its formation, the yearly six-day event is a spectacle.

But with some of the largest players in today's consumer electronics industry shunning CES, the trade show's impact may be waning.

Apple, the world's most valuable technology company, and Amazon, an upstart in tablets and the leader in e-readers, do not participate. Google's operating systems can be found in partners' booths, running on phones, tablets and TVs, but the software giant does not run a booth.

And Microsoft, which will deliver its 14th CES presentation Monday, announced recently it will not have a booth or participate in the keynotes after this year's event.

"Are we doing something because it's the right thing to do, or because 'it's the way we've always done it?' " a Microsoft spokesman asked rhetorically in a statement.

The big product categories that will dominate the CES show floor next week, according to manufacturers and analysts, are not revolutionary. They are expected to be thinner, lighter and more refined versions of gadgets that have already gained a toehold with consumers.

Tablets

Electronics makers have been chasing after Apple's iPad for two years, and the racetrack is expected to get more crowded next week.

Google and Samsung last month released the first phone running Android 4.0, which is Google's first system that's designed to work consistently on either a phone or a tablet. At CES, tech companies will showcase plenty of phones with that software, but the touchscreen tablets with Android 4 will be prevalent.

Not to get left out of the party it started about a decade ago, Microsoft is stepping up its tablet efforts. The next major version of Windows will have a revamped interface for tablet computers, which will present programs as tiles that can be touched to fill the screen.

Analysts expect to see a bevy of Windows 8 tablets at CES.

With so many options, bargain hunters may get to pick something besides Amazon's Kindle Fire, which lit up holiday sales last month. (The Fire actually has quite a bit of Android code under the hood. Sorry, Microsoft.)

Ultrabooks

Windows won't be just for tablets, of course. A new breed of computers called Ultrabooks will launch at CES from several PC manufacturers.

If the tablet wars are a response to the iPad, then Ultrabooks follow in the footsteps of Apple's MacBook Air. They are thinner and lighter than the average laptop because they typically do not have disc drives, and instead of hard drives, use flash memory, which is faster but more expensive.

Microsoft will enable this anti-disc computer with the application store in Windows 8. But the Ultrabook initiative is being driven by Intel, which makes the processor that runs them.

"You have Intel pushing heavily on this very thin but relatively traditional clamshell form factor without a lot of emphasis on touch," NPD Group analyst Ross Rubin said in a phone interview. "And then you've got Microsoft pushing the touchscreen tablet experience."

Netbooks appear to be on their way out. That's a bad sign for Google, whose Chromebooks have struggled to challenge Microsoft in PC operating systems.

Internet TVs that also do 3-D

TVs have long been the centerpiece of CES and of the consumer electronics industry as a whole. For the last few years, the big push has been in three-dimensional viewing technology, but demand has been small.

Meanwhile, Internet services are also working their way onto television sets. Netflix and Pandora have seen tremendous growth on TV platforms.

For the 3-D optimists, app-friendly TVs, which also happen to work with 3-D glasses, could allow for more 3-D video from independent filmmakers who distribute over the Web, Rubin noted.

CES is expected to provide a launchpad for TVs that are smarter about how they let watchers access Web content, analysts say. Google has reportedly invested more in its TV platform, which should be evident at CES.

The electronics giants do not want to get beaten to another big opportunity by Apple, which is rumored to be working on a TV set of its own. Don't expect Apple to show up at CES with a big screen though. Or to show up at all.

Connected cars

As the automotive industry strives for a rebound, car makers are looking for high tech to be their guide.

Several car companies have lined up CES presentations. They are expected to announce partnerships with popular Internet software companies and unveil technical wonders available at the touch of a button on the steering wheel. Dieter Zetsche, the head of Mercedes-Benz Cars, will present a keynote speech Tuesday.

MOG, the music-streaming service, plans to announce integration with a line of cars Tuesday. And since last CES, Pandora has more than doubled the number of cars that tap into its streaming radio service, Pandora founder Tim Westergren said in a phone interview.

"These companies see the car as a software platform," Westergren said. "It's the computer on four wheels."

Apps

Sure, CES is about gadgets, but the programs that run on them have become a key selling point.

Many electronics makers have apparently decided that each new phone, tablet, car or refrigerator should allow owners to update their Facebook statuses.

"Software has simply become so critical to the overall customer experience," said Rubin, the NPD Group analyst. "It's no longer an optional part of the business."

Software makers are eager to exploit this reality. Many say they will tout their wares at partners' booths and in private meetings. For example, online video provider Vimeo plans to make a major announcement Monday to coincide with the start of CES.

Vimeo CEO Dae Mellencamp said in an interview at the company's New York headquarters that CES has emerged as an important venue for her company and others like it. "It's the only trade show I attend all year," she said.

@highlight

The Consumer Electronics Show brings a slew of new gadgets

@highlight

Tablets running Google's Android and Microsoft's Windows 8 will debut

@highlight

Ultrabooks, a new type of thinner laptop, are expected to make a splash

@highlight

But some of the largest players in the consumer electronics industry are shunning CES
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Bayern Munich might be licking their wounds after defeat in the European Champions League final, but the German club can find comfort in victory of a different kind: by beating Chelsea in football's financial league table.

Despite Saturday's crushing penalty shootout loss to the English side in their own backyard at the the Allianz Arena, the Bavarians have been ranked as the second most valuable brand in football.

According to a new report by independent consultancy Brand Finance, which has compiled a list of the 50 biggest brands in the sport, the four-time European champions have been valued at $786 million.

Chelsea, by comparison, made fifth place with a value of $398 million.

But English giants Manchester United lead the way, as in 2011, with a brand estimated to be worth $853 million.

"Manchester United have got a global reach," Brand Finance's head of sports brands Dave Chattaway told CNN.

Click here to see football's top 10 brands

"United have got quite a professional setup, with people who have worked for Pepsi, Disney, all different kinds of marketing industries. They have brought their expertise into the sports industry."

But Bayern are the year's big winners.

Despite the defeat by Chelsea and having been beaten to the German league and cup by Borussia Dortmund, the club's brand value grew by 59% over the last 12 months.

"If you look at Bayern Munich, they are a domestic powerhouse," said Chattaway.

"They have got really strong links with strong German brands.

"Bayern have long-term deals, they have been with Adidas for over 10 years. They generate the highest commercial revenue and they are able to negotiate the highest possible deals based on their dominance of the German market."

Munich mourns as Bayern blow big chance

Behind United and Bayern are the Spanish "El Clasico" rivals of Real Madrid, third with a value of $600 million, and Barcelona, with a brand worth $580 million.

Spanish champions Real and 2011 European champions Barca have seen similar decreases in the value of their brands, 7% and 8% respectively, which Chattaway puts down to the country's current economic plight.

"They have both had relatively successful years on the pitch," he said.

"The eurozone crisis has really impacted the capital in Spain and Italy. It's not necessarily something they are doing wrong commercially, it's a sign of the economy they operate in."

The top 10 is dominated by teams from the English Premier League, with United and Chelsea followed by 2011-12 title winners Manchester City in eighth ($302 million)

Torres unsure of Chelsea future

"Within Europe, the Premier League is still the pinnacle," explained Chattaway. "It still generates the most money because of the broadcast rights.

"It is much more attractive to a foreign audience than the German Bundesliga or the Spanish First Division. The Premier League clubs are benefiting from that."

Italian Cup winners Napoli ($85 million) were the only Serie A club to increase brand value, coming off the back of a relatively successful Champions League campaign, to be 22nd overall.

AC Milan ($292 million) placed ninth on the list after winning the title in 2010-11, while this season's champions Juventus ($160 million) fell from 10th in 2011 to 16th this year.

Former England captain David Beckham and his Los Angeles Galaxy teammates enjoyed a landmark year in 2011, being crowned Major League Soccer champions for a third time.

Despite their success, and despite boasting one of football's most recognizable and marketable stars, the Galaxy ($46 million) only crept onto the list in 50th position.

"The game in the U.S. is still developing massively," said Chattaway.

"The revenues are a fraction of those in Europe. The games are rarely sold out and the grounds themselves have quite a small capacity.

"The commercial deals in the U.S. cannot compete with the European market. The MLS is still largely only shown in the U.S., it hasn't really expanded globally as quickly as we would have expected."

With such a huge gap between the sport's most lucrative brands and those with less commercial appeal, are football clubs making the most of their financial potential?

"I think there is more scope for all the clubs to further maximize value -- clubs have traditionally been slow and unimaginative in monetizing the brand they own," Chattaway said.

"There is scope for football clubs to learn from U.S. sports marketing practices.

"The clubs need to better understand the brand asset that they own so that they can ensure they get the right returns on all commercial deals."

The list took into account various revenue streams for clubs, such as ticket sales, merchandising, sponsorship deals and money received from the sale of broadcasting rights.

.

@highlight

Manchester United again named football's most valuable brand

@highlight

The 19-time English champions are worth a reported $853 million

@highlight

Germany's Bayern Munich second on the list, worth an estimated $786 million

@highlight

Spanish rivals Real Madrid and Barcelona both see small decreases in brand value
***END_OF_STORY***
Tripoli, Libya (CNN) -- Rebels in Tripoli furiously hunting for signs of longtime Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi are exploring a network of tunnels and bunkers built beneath his massive compound.

CNN's Sara Sidner got a peek at the passageways Friday. She dubbed it "Gadhafi's inner sanctum."

The correspondent, who's been covering the battle of Tripoli, walked down steps into a pitch-dark tunnel and used a flashlight to navigate an underworld described as "massive."

So far, she said, rebels have cleared about 700 meters of underground passages. The tunnel network is believed to extend all the way to the city's international airport and the Rixos hotel. That's where 33 journalists and two foreign nationals were held for five days by pro-Gadhafi forces.

It also is thought to extend to a neighborhood where Gadhafi forces were lobbing shells recently toward the compound after it was taken over by the rebels.

The tunnels Sidner saw are wide enough for adults to walk side by side. She spotted a golf cart that can easily fit in the corridors.

Sidner also saw a range of other sights as she strolled through the labyrinth: A thick wall, a massive door and a sturdy lock. A charred ceiling, couches and beds where a fire apparently occurred. Pieces of metal and shrapnel. A section where NATO bombs fell and the roof caved in.

Another room contained videotapes lined up on a shelf, part of a TV studio where Gadhafi may have recorded messages.

"It's set up like a survival bunker," Sidner said in an on-air report. "There is literally a city under here."

@highlight

CNN's Sara Sidner sees another world in a tunnel below Tripoli

@highlight

Gadhafi may have recorded his taped messages in a studio there

@highlight

Rebels are methodically searching through the winding passages
***END_OF_STORY***
WASHINGTON (CNN) -- Former Vice President Dick Cheney on Sunday defended the Bush administration's economic record, the invasion of Iraq and the treatment of suspected terrorists, warning that reversing its anti-terrorism policies endangers Americans.

"We've accomplished nearly everything we set out to do," ex-Vice President Dick Cheney says Sunday about Iraq.

In a wide-ranging interview with CNN's "State of the Union," Cheney said the harsh interrogations of suspects and the use of warrantless electronic surveillance were "absolutely essential" to get information to prevent more attacks like the 2001 suicide hijackings that targeted New York and Washington.

"President Obama campaigned against it all across the country, and now he is making some choices that, in my mind, will, in fact, raise the risk to the American people of another attack," he said.

Critics said the Bush administration's "alternative" interrogation techniques amounted to the torture of prisoners in American custody, while the administration's warrantless surveillance program violated federal laws enacted after the Watergate scandal.

Since taking office in January, Obama has announced plans to close the U.S. prison camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to halt the military trials of suspected terrorists there, and to make CIA officers follow the Army field manual's rules on interrogations. Cheney said the administration appears to be returning to the pre-2001 model of treating terrorism as a law enforcement issue, rather than a military problem.

"When you go back to the law enforcement mode, which I sense is what they're doing, closing Guantanamo and so forth ... they are very much giving up that center of attention and focus that's required, that concept of military threat that is essential if you're going to successfully defend the nation against further attacks," he said.

But Rep. Joe Sestak, D-Pennsylvania, said the Bush administration's policies undercut "what is actually the source of America's greatness -- our principles."

"How can we say that keeping a man in a black hole forever -- perpetually in a black hole -- and saying, 'Let's torture when we decide to,' is what America stands for?" asked Sestak, a former admiral who led the Navy's anti-terrorism efforts.

The Bush administration took office at the end of an economic boom and left in the middle of a deep recession, with a budget surplus in 2001 becoming a $1 trillion-plus deficit by 2009. But Cheney said he and Bush had to spend money to deal with the September 11, 2001 attacks, the resulting war in Afghanistan, the disaster of 2005's Hurricane Katrina, and the costly and unpopular war in Iraq, now nearly six years old.

"All of these things required us to spend money that we had not originally planned to spend, or weren't originally part of the budget," Cheney said. "Stuff happens. And the administration has to be able to respond to that, and we did."

Obama has begun to wind down the war in Iraq, which has cost more than 4,200 American lives and nearly $700 billion in direct costs. But Cheney said the United States has "accomplished nearly everything we set out to do" in Iraq, including establishing a democratic government in the Middle East.

Cheney was one of the administration's leading advocates of the 2003 invasion of Iraq, pressing the Bush administration's argument that Iraq was concealing weapons of mass destruction and could provide those weapons to terrorists. None of those weapons were found after the invasion, but Cheney said, "We've eliminated that possibility."

In 2005, Cheney said the raging insurgency against U.S. troops was in its "last throes." Nearly two years later, a commitment of more than 30,000 additional American troops and a widespread effort to pay former insurgents to turn against Islamic militants helped quell the worst of the violence.

"I don't hear much talk about that, but the fact is, the violence level is down 90 percent," Cheney said. "The number of casualties [among] Iraqis and Americans is significantly diminished. There's been elections, a constitution. They're about to have another presidential election here in the near future. We have succeeded in creating in the heart of the Middle East a democratically governed Iraq, and that is a big deal, and it is, in fact, what we set out to do."

But Sestak said the administration was too slow to react to the problems it faced in Iraq and let the conflict overshadow the "whole fabric" of U.S. national security.

"The cost of this war is something that I strongly believe has far, far hurt us," he said. "We're going to recover, because we're Americans. But Iraq was just one piece of our security, and this administration failed to realize that."

Though considered one of the administration's most influential figures, Cheney said President Bush rebuffed his advice on at least two issues.  Watch Cheney tout Bush administration »

He said Bush left former Cheney aide Lewis "Scooter" Libby "sort of hanging in the wind" by refusing to issue Libby a pardon before leaving office. Libby was convicted of perjury, obstruction of justice, and lying to federal agents investigating the leak of a former CIA officer's identity.

"I believe firmly that Scooter was unjustly accused and prosecuted and deserved a pardon, and the president disagreed with that," Cheney said. He would disclose no details of his efforts to lobby the president on Libby's behalf, saying they would be "best left to history."

And Cheney said he argued against the administration's policy on North Korea, which tested a nuclear weapon in 2006. The Bush administration reached a still-incomplete disarmament deal with the isolated Stalinist state in 2007 and removed it from the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism as part of the deal.

"I had my say," Cheney told CNN. "I got my chance to voice my views and my objections. I didn't think the North Koreans were going to keep their end of the bargain in terms of what they agreed to, and they didn't."

The Obama administration has nominated Christopher Hill, the State Department official who was the top U.S. negotiator with North Korea, to be the U.S. ambassador to Iraq. Cheney said Hill lacks the Middle East experience that his predecessors have, and "I did not support the work that Chris Hill did with respect to North Korea."

"I think it's a choice that I wouldn't have made," he said.

@highlight

NEW: Cheney: Harsh interrogations, warrantless eavesdropping "essential"

@highlight

NEW: Former vice president says Bush rebuffed his advice on two big issues

@highlight

"An administration has to be able to respond to [crises] and we did," Cheney said

@highlight

Cheney cites costs of dealing with 9/11 attacks, wars in Afghanistan and Iraq
***END_OF_STORY***
Washington (CNN) -- A federal judge on Tuesday ordered a full mental competency screening for Omar Gonzalez, who is accused of jumping the White House fence, after a disputed initial examination found him not competent for trial.

U.S. District Court Judge Rosemary Collyer expressed concern that the initial mental exam, ordered by a magistrate judge, was done before she had a chance to hear a legal motion by the defense disputing whether the magistrate had the authority to order it. David Bos, the federal public defender representing Gonzalez, objected to any examination in the first place because he says Gonzalez is fit for trial.

The 60-minute initial mental examination of Gonzalez at the District of Columbia jail came as a surprise to the judge and to both the government and defense. But the result, finding Gonzalez not competent, can't be ignored, Collyer said in court Tuesday.

Bos told the judge: "There is no doubt in my mind that Mr. Gonzalez is competent to stand trial." Nonetheless, he withdrew his objections and agreed to allow his client to undergo a fuller competency examination to try to undo the results of the initial examination.

The judge delayed arraignment for Gonzalez on new charges the government filed against him last week.

Gonzalez was arrested in September after he allegedly jumped the White House fence and sprinted into the executive mansion, setting off concerns about Secret Service security procedures.

He was found with a folding knife and told a Secret Service agent "that he was concerned that the atmosphere was collapsing and needed to get the information to the President of the United States so that he could get the word out to the people," according to an agent's affidavit filed in court. His family has said Gonzalez, an Iraq War veteran, suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder and paranoia.

The incident came amid a series of disclosures about Secret Service lapses that cost the agency's director, Julia Pierson, her job.

Collyer said that during the initial examination, the mental health screener found Gonzalez did understand some parts of the proceedings. The judge suggested that Gonzalez's mental issues, which she didn't describe more fully, could be resolved with medication.

The judge also raised concerns that the government's handling of previous unrelated cases could mean it will take some time for Gonzalez to be examined at a federal Bureau of Prisons facility. She gave one example of an unnamed defendant who sat at the District of Columbia jail for months before anyone noticed he hadn't received the tests that were ordered. The problem, she said, was that sequestration has cut resources for the Bureau of Prisons and finding a bed can take time.

Collyer ordered the mental health screening to be done in 30 days and set a new hearing for December 3 at 10:30 a.m.

@highlight

Omar Gonzalez is accused of jumping the White House fence in September

@highlight

An initial evaluation finds him not competent to stand trial

@highlight

His attorney argues Gonzalez is fine, but agrees to more thorough exam
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- A German tourist was in critical condition after a shark severed her right arm while she snorkeled in Hawaii on Wednesday, authorities said.

The approximately 20-year-old woman, who was unconscious when first responders arrived, was taken to Maui Medical Center for treatment, according Lee Mainaga with the Maui Fire Department.

Shark found on New York subway car

The attack took place about 50 yards offshore at White Rock beach in Maui. The beach has been closed one mile on either side of where the attack happened.

Officials will assess on Thursday morning whether the beach can be reopened.

Shark attack claims Brazilian teen's life

This shark attack is the fourth in Maui this year, with two happening on the same day in February, and the other in late July.

While shark attacks have been on the uptick in recent years, according to the University of Florida, the fatality rate in the United States is just 2%.

Discovery Channel defends dramatized shark special

Best places to swim with sharks

@highlight

This is the fourth shark attack in Maui this year

@highlight

It took place about 50 yards offshore

@highlight

Officials will decide Thursday if the beach can reopen
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Fifteen people have now died after consuming cantaloupe contaminated with the listeria monocytogenes bacteria, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Friday.

At least 84 people in 19 states have become ill with the bacteria, the agency said. And the number of illnesses could still grow, added the CDC, citing reporting lags and how the disease can develop slowly in some people.

On Tuesday, the CDC was reporting 13 deaths and 72 illnesses in what was already then the deadliest food-borne illness outbreak in the United States since 1998.

Five people have died in New Mexico from eating the tainted cantaloupes, the CDC said. Three people died in Colorado, two in Texas and one each in Kansas, Maryland, Missouri, Nebraska and Oklahoma.

Illnesses have also been reported in Alabama, Arkansas, California, Illinois, Indiana, Montana, North Dakota, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming.

What you need to know about Listeria

Most of those who fell ill are more than 60 years old, the CDC said. Doctors also are closely monitoring the pregnancies of two women who ate contaminated cantaloupe, with the agency noting that listeriosis can cause miscarriages and stillbirths.

Older adults and people with compromised immune systems are also especially susceptible.

Public health investigators have traced the source of the bacteria to a farm in Granada, Colorado.

Food Poisoning 101

The grower, Jensen Farms, issued a recall for its Rocky Ford-brand cantaloupes on September 14. By now, the cantaloupes should all be off store shelves, the CDC said.

The agency warned that people should not eat Rocky Ford cantaloupes, even if they have eaten part of one and have not yet fallen ill. It also said that consumers should be wary of eating any cantaloupes if they don't know where they came from.

How to keep your food safe

@highlight

Contaminated cantaloupes have caused illnesses in 19 states, the CDC says

@highlight

In addition to the deaths, a total of 84 people have fallen ill, the agency says

@highlight

The fruits are thought to be tainted by listeria monocytogenes bacteria

@highlight

Colorado-based Jensen Farms has recalled its cantaloupes
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- Criminals who file fraudulent tax returns by stealing people's identities could rake in an estimated $26 billion over the next five years because the IRS cannot keep up with the amount of the fraud, Treasury Inspector General J. Russell George said Tuesday.

"Our analysis found that, although the IRS detects and prevents a large number of fraudulent refunds based on false income documents, there is much fraud that it does not detect," said George's prepared testimony before a joint hearing of the House Ways and Means Subcommittees on Oversight and Social Security.

George's report is the first detailed analysis of the tax refund fraud problem, which could affect any legitimate taxpayer. His projection of $26 billion is larger than any other estimate of identity theft tax fraud.

In a statement issued following George's testimony, the IRS said it "believes that the five-year estimate is far too high."

"The estimate was based on 2010 figures, which took place before the IRS instituted major changes with the way it handles identity theft cases," the IRS statement read. "Our expanded screening on issues such as W-2 matching, Schedule C information, interest income and Social Security income have had a major impact on our ability to reduce identity theft fraud."

Those efforts, according to the IRS, have lead to "stopping more refund fraud than ever before" and "are not reflected in the five-year projection" by the Treasury inspector general.

Last year, according to the Treasury Inspector General's Office, the IRS reported that of the 2.2 million tax returns it found to be fraudulent, about 940,000 returns totaling $6.5 billion were related to identity theft. In its investigation, George said, auditors found another 1.5 million undetected tax returns with more than $5.2 billion in fraud.

"The primary characteristic of these cases is that the identity thief reports false income and withholding to generate a fraudulent tax return," George said. "Without the falsely reported income, many of the deductions and/or credits used to inflate the fraudulent tax refund could not be claimed on the tax return. The individuals whose identities were stolen may not even be aware that their identities were used to file a fraudulent tax return."

Making the problem worse, George said, the IRS is hampered by limited resources.

"Even with improved identification of these returns, the next step of verifying whether the returns are fraudulent will require resources," he said. "The IRS has faced budget cuts, a hiring freeze and staffing reductions during the same time it has encountered a significant surge in identity theft refund fraud. Without the necessary resources, it is unlikely that the IRS will be able to work the entire inventory of potentially fraudulent returns it identifies. The IRS will only select those tax returns that it can verify based on its resources."

The scope of the problem is illustrated by what George said his auditors found for tax year 2010, in which 48,357 Social Security numbers were used multiple times as a primary taxpayer identification number.

"When the identity thief files the fraudulent tax return, the IRS does not yet know that the individual's identity will be used more than once," George said. "As a result, the tax return is processed, and the fraudulent refund is issued. These instances result in the greatest burden to the legitimate taxpayer."

As of last month, the IRS reported that it had stopped the issuance of $1.3 billion in potentially fraudulent tax returns. The IRS says it determined these returns were potentially fraudulent through a sampling of returns, and it does not believe any legitimate returns were included.

George said more should be done to ensure that fraudulent tax returns are not deposited into bank accounts. In addition, thieves commonly get the refunds put on debit cards.

"Direct deposits should not be made to debit cards issued by financial institutions and debit card administration companies that do not take sufficient steps to authenticate individuals' identities," George said.

To make matters worse, the IRS is not effectively helping the victims of identity theft, George said, adding that it can take more than a year to resolve these cases.

"The IRS acknowledges that it does not know the exact number of identity theft incidents or the number of taxpayers affected by identity theft," George said. "It also has not been able to quantify the amount of improper payments resulting from identity theft."

In an investigation into tax refund fraud, CNN reported in March that criminals have purchased luxury cars, jewelry and plastic surgery with the money.

First, thieves obtain Social Security numbers and other personal information from insiders at hospitals, doctor's offices, car dealerships or anywhere the information is stored. Then, they file an online tax return using the real taxpayer's name and a fictitious income. In most cases, the criminals buy a debit card so the IRS can issue the refund on that card, although some thieves have also gotten their returns on actual Treasury checks.

The thieves know that the IRS does not verify the employer W-2s sent with the return until after the refund is issued.

The IRS maintains it has certain filters in place at the start of the tax filing season to prevent and detect identity theft and fraud, and it says it has recently trained additional employees across the country to deal with the problem. It has also issued special personal identification numbers, or PINs, to identity theft victims when they are filing future returns.

But in testimony before Congress last year, National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson said those filters "inevitably block large numbers of proper refund claims" since there "is no easy way to distinguish proper claims from improper ones."

In testimony prepared for Tuesday's hearing, Deputy IRS Commissioner Steven Miller said the agency cannot stop all identity theft.

"However, we have improved, and we are committed to continuing to improve our programs. We can and will continue to work to prevent the issuance of fraudulent refunds, and we can and will continue to work with innocent taxpayers to clear their accounts and/or get them money faster in a courteous and professional manner."

At the same time, Miller said, there is a "delicate balance" in the "need to make payments in a timely manner with the need to ensure that claims are proper and taxpayer rights are protected."

In the past four years, he said, the IRS has identified more than 490,000 taxpayers who are the victims of identity theft.

"Various new identity theft filters are in place to improve our ability to spot false returns before they are processed and before a refund is issued," Miller said.

The IRS has issued special identification numbers to taxpayers whose identities have been stolen and clamped down on abuses in filing returns under deceased taxpayers' identities and prisoners. The agency also started a pilot program in April to help local law enforcement in obtaining tax return information related to ongoing criminal investigations.

"I cannot tell you that we will beat this problem in one year," Miller said. "I can tell you that we have committed our talents and resources to prevent the issuance of fraudulent returns and have developed processes to minimize the pain felt by those who have been victimized."

@highlight

The Treasury's estimate is the first detailed analysis of the ongoing problem

@highlight

With budget cuts, the IRS cannot deal with the fraud, according to inspector general

@highlight

IRS says it stopped the issuance of $1.3 billion in potentially fraudulent tax returns
***END_OF_STORY***
(CNN) -- A short video that has gone viral in Mexico asks a tough question of the country's presidential candidates: "Are you striving only for the (presidential) chair, or will you change the future of our country?"

A young girl with brown eyes and long brown hair, wearing a simple white shirt, poses the question. Behind her is a small army of child actors who star in the video, which is cute for a moment, but deadly serious.

In it, the children act out a day in the life of a Mexican resident, fraught with all the problems and challenges that a leader must face.

A child dressed as a businessman gets robbed at gunpoint as soon as he leaves his home. The robbers hand their loot over to a corrupt police officer. Protesters clash with riot police. There's a smog alert. Drug traffickers have it out with police on the streets, and human smugglers unload their cargo.

Seeing children act out these grown-up situations has elicited a number of responses. Some viewers have criticized it as political manipulation, others as a wake-up call. But the list of Mexico's woes weighs heavily: security, pollution and poverty, among others.

The video has garnered nearly 2 million views in less than four days.

"In reality, the video is not reflecting anything that people have not experienced," said Rosenda Martinez, a spokeswoman for Our Mexico of the Future, the group behind the production.

The video targets the major presidential candidates -- Enrique Pena Nieto, Josefina Vazquez Mota and Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador -- and aims to raise awareness about Our Mexico of the Future.

The goal of the organization is to collect as many "visions" of Mexico's future as possible and to compile them in a book that will be presented to the candidates before the election.

So far, more than 10 million Mexicans have written or recorded their dreams for a safer or cleaner or more tolerant Mexico.

"We've had the response we've hoped for, and even exceeded it," Martinez said.

After the children in the video depict a kidnapping, posters of the missing and people wearing face masks because of smog, the young narrator continues: "If this is the future that awaits me, I don't want it. Stop working for your party, and not for us. Stop superficially fixing the country."

Some of the candidates have watched the video.

Vazquez Mota, of the ruling National Action Party, said the video's message can't go unnoticed, while Institutional Revolutionary Party candidate Pena Nieto expressed that now is the time for change, as the video suggests.

Leftist candidate Lopez Obrador, of the Party of the Democratic Revolution, had not seen the video, but said he agreed with the theme of change.

Our Mexico of the Future will release data based on the millions of messages it has received. Martinez said to expect that security and the environment are the two most popular themes mentioned by Mexicans.

CNN's Krupskaia Alis contributed to this report from Mexico City.

@highlight

A video featuring child actors has gone viral in Mexico

@highlight

It shows children facing the challenges the country faces

@highlight

The video asks Mexican presidential candidates for real change

@highlight

Some of the candidates have seen the video
***END_OF_STORY***
ISIS, as the Islamic State jihadists in Iraq and Syria are known, has become the new face of international terrorism in the eyes of the United States and its Western allies.

Now the focus in America and abroad has become what will President Barack Obama and other leaders do about it?

Here are key questions on the matter:

1) Who killed James Foley?

Britain's ambassador to the United States, Peter Westmacott, told CNN on Sunday that British officials were close to identifying the ISIS militant who beheaded Foley, an American journalist captured in Syria in 2012.

He couldn't elaborate on the identity of the killer, who is seen decapitating Foley in a video posted last week on YouTube.

"We're putting a great deal into the search," he said, referring to the use of sophisticated technology to analyze the man's voice.

In the video, Foley, 40, is seen kneeling next to a man dressed in black, who speaks with what experts say is a distinctly English accent.

Linguists said that based on his voice, the man sounds to be younger than 30. He also appears to have been educated in England from a young age and to be from southern England or London.

Britain close to identifying James Foley's killer, ambassador says

2) Will the United States expand air strikes to ISIS targets in Syria?

Pressure is increasing on Obama to go after ISIS in both Iraq and Syria, ignoring an essentially non-existent border between them.

Last week, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey said that taking on ISIS in Syria was the only way to defeat the Sunni jihadists.

For Obama, the step would reverse his refusal for three years to get involved militarily in Syria despite pressure from his own advisers, including former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

Obama "has not made any decision to order military action in Syria," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Monday, but the speculation and insistence continued.

"The White House is trying to minimize the threat we face in order to justify not changing a failed strategy," conservative GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said Monday.

CNN National Security Analyst Peter Bergen said it will be difficult to defeat ISIS without ground forces, something Obama clearly opposes. Intervening in Syria also could result in some strange geopolitical bedfellows, he noted.

"Two of the most effective fighting forces in Syria are al Qaeda or al Qaeda splinter groups, or groups like Hezbollah, backed by Iran," Bergen said. "So if you intervene, you may be helping Iran and Hezbollah and (Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's) regime."

Obama already sent military advisers to Iraq and launched air strikes to protect them and minority groups from ISIS fighters rampaging through the country's north.

Is Obama heading toward airstrikes in Syria?

A White House spokesman said last week that Obama would consult with Congress before taking such a step in Syria. The President also would seek to forge a coalition including regional allies as well as U.N. and European Union support, officials have made clear.

Republicans urge airstrikes in Syria to defeat ISIS

3) Will the Syrian regime that Obama opposes help fight ISIS?

Obama wants al-Assad out of power, but now the Syrian leader engaged in a civil war against a U.S.-backed opposition is offering to help him take on ISIS.

Foreign Minister Walid Moallem said Monday his government would accept support from the United States and others working under the U.N. umbrella to fight "terrorists" -- a code word for the group that calls itself the Islamic State and seeks to establish a caliphate across a Sunni-dominated swath of the the Middle East.

Moallem, however, warned against any unilateral action or strikes in Syrian territory without its permission, saying "any effort to fight terrorism should be done in coordination" with the "Syrian government."

Last week, Atlantic Council senior fellow and Syria expert Frederic Hof said a U.S. rescue mission for Foley earlier this year that went into Syria but failed to find him established the precedent for military action across the Iraq border, superseding any legal considerations such as being asked by the host government to enter.

"The sort of legal barrier that prohibited doing something inside Syria now seems to have evaporated," Hof said.

The Syrian offer to help fight ISIS comes after al-Assad's government enabled the group to expand amid the Syrian civil war. ISIS fighters have attacked the Syrian opposition fighting government forces, but also have seized some government territory.

Al-Assad's military recently launched its own air strikes on ISIS positions, amounting to what Hof described as a dispute between crime gangs over money -- in this case, from oil fields occupied by ISIS.

Syria ready to cooperate with UN to fight terror

4) Will ISIS attack the West?

To some in the United States, especially critics of Obama, an ISIS attack on U.S. interests and even the homeland is a question of when, not if.

"ISIS is a very powerful local organization, and probably a reasonably powerful regional terrorist organization," former CIA chief Michael Hayden told CNN on Sunday. "But it's one that has global ambitions -- and it has the tools."

There's no clear consensus inside the intelligence community as to whether ISIS, which calls itself the Islamic State, is currently capable of striking the West.

"It's expressed the intent," Hayden said. "There's no more powerful way to express their street credentials among the jihadist community than a successful attack against the West."

Graham, a consistent advocate for increased U.S. military might, told CNN on Sunday that "it's about time now to assume the worst about these guys, rather than to be underestimating them."

ISIS threat to the West

5) Can the ISIS money flow be stopped?

Bank robbery, kidnapping, smuggling, selling oil on the black market -- ISIS gets money to fund and expand its organization in all kinds of ways.

Officials say the group can get about $3 million a day by selling discounted oil from fields it has seized in Iraq. It also has grabbed millions robbing banks including an Iraqi central bank in Mosul.

Western allies can reduce the group's income by refusing to pay ransom for abducted citizens and pressuring regional governments to crack down on wealthy citizens sending money to it.

The United States is working with governments in the region, including Kuwait, Qatar and Saudi Arabia, to stop such private donations, State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said last week.

ISIS oil money

@highlight

White House: President Obama has not decided on air strikes in Syria

@highlight

Possible options include air strikes on ISIS targets in Syria

@highlight

Some consider the group a direct threat to U.S. security

@highlight

Obama spent three years avoiding a U.S. military role in Syria
***END_OF_STORY***
(Health.com) -- An essential nutrient found in fish oil does not appear to slow the mental decline associated with Alzheimer's disease, according to a new study in the Journal of the American Medical Association.

The study is merely the latest to cast doubt on the mental benefits of the omega-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which until recently was considered a promising way to minimize the risk and damage of dementia. (The other main ingredient found in fish oil, eicosapentaenoic acid, or EPA, is not believed to play a significant role in brain health.)

Health.com: Fish oil doesn't benefit new moms, babies

DHA or fish-oil supplements aren't likely to cause any harm to Alzheimer's patients, but they aren't likely to do any good either, says Steven H. Ferris, Ph.D., the director of the Aging and Dementia Research Center at New York University.

Fish oil "seems to be healthy in general, and maybe for other things it's helpful, but it doesn't benefit cognitive function in a person with Alzheimer's," says Ferris, who was not involved in the study.

Research on DHA has been inconclusive and sometimes conflicting. Several studies that followed large groups of people as they aged have suggested that a diet rich in fish is linked to a reduced risk of dementia and mental decline, but most randomized controlled trials comparing DHA supplements with placebo have found no benefit.

Health.com: 9 foods that may help save your memory

"It's not the first time something in large epidemiological datasets just didn't work out clinically," Ferris says, noting that statin medications, anti-inflammatory drugs, and estrogen therapy have all failed to live up to their initial promise in preventing or treating Alzheimer's. "Unfortunately, that seems to be the situation here."

The study was funded by the National Institute on Aging and was led by Dr. Joseph F. Quinn, M.D., a neurologist at the Oregon Health and Science University, in Portland.

Quinn and his colleagues randomly assigned about 400 women and men in their mid-70s with likely Alzheimer's disease -- the disease is very difficult to accurately diagnose -- to take 2 grams of DHA or placebo capsules per day. After 18 months, the average mental decline in the DHA and placebo groups was nearly identical, as measured on two separate tests and rating scales.

Despite the disappointing results, the study doesn't entirely rule out the possibility that DHA may have some benefit if taken earlier in life. A growing body of research suggests that dementia begins decades before any noticeable symptoms surface, and it's possible that DHA helps prevent or slow those harmful changes.

Health.com: 25 signs and symptoms of Alzheimer's disease

Treatments such as DHA may be too little too late for people who are already showing signs of Alzheimer's, according to Dr. Kristine Yaffe, M.D., a professor of psychiatry at the University of California, San Francisco.

"Effective treatment strategies to prevent progression of [Alzheimer's disease] will likely need to be initiated earlier," Yaffe writes in an editorial accompanying the study.

Copyright Health Magazine 2011

@highlight

Studies show that an essential nutrient in fish oil does not appear to slow mental decline

@highlight

Fish oil seems to be healthy in general, but does not benefit Alzheimer's patients cognitively

@highlight

Treatments such as DHA could prevent or slow dementia if started earlier in life
***END_OF_STORY***
(EW.com) -- Chris Meloni has booked his first post-"SVU" gig -- and it's a bloody good one.

The former star of the Dick Wolf drama will join HBO's "True Blood" in season 5 as "ancient, powerful vampire who holds the fate of Bill and Eric in his hands." He will be a series regular.

Meloni's role on Alan Ball's drama marks a homecoming, of sorts: The actor previously played Chris Keller on the pay cabler's gritty drama "Oz" from 1998 to 2003.

Earlier this year, Meloni decided to step down from playing Detective Elliot Stabler on the long-running NBC drama.

See the full article at EW.com.

CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly

© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.

@highlight

Christopher Meloni will join HBO's "True Blood" in season 5

@highlight

He will play an "ancient, powerful vampire who holds the fate of Bill and Eric in his hands"

@highlight

The actor previously played Chris Keller on the pay cabler's gritty drama "Oz"
***END_OF_STORY***
Ballet dancer Pavel Dmitrichenko, often cast as the villain in Bolshoi Ballet productions, is now the lead defendant in a plot worthy of a Tchaikovsky score.

The 29-year-old allegedly choreographed an attack intended to blind Bolshoi artistic director Sergei Filin, the man who put him in the roles of Ivan the Terrible and Swan Lake's evil genius.

The mystery of who threw sulfuric acid into Filin's face in January has captivated Russians and kept Moscow detectives busy probing rivalries within Russia's renowned 240-year-old ballet company.

It might well send Hollywood literary agents and producers scrambling for story details as described by police reports and local media accounts.

Police declared their case was solved this week with a confession by Dmitrichenko

Russian police question suspect in Bolshoi director's acid attack

"I organized this attack but not to the extent that it happened," he is heard saying in a video released by police.

The characters in this drama include Dmitrichenko's girlfriend, Anzhelina Vorontsova. She has not been charged, but local newspapers quote ballet members as saying Dmitrichenko was angry because he thought Filin was stifling her career.

Two alleged co-conspirators have been detained: Alleged hit man Yuri Zarutsky -- a burly, bearded Russian who was previously convicted of beating someone to death -- and Andrey Lipatov, who allegedly drove the getaway car after Zarutksy's battery acid attack on Filin.

While the final act must still play out in a Russian courtroom, the story opens in the nearly two-century-old Bolshoi Theatre.

Act 1 - The Bolshoi Theatre

Ballet is a world where competition is fierce, and where the artistic director wields considerable influence in making or breaking careers.

Filin, 42, was promoted to the Bolshoi Theatre's coveted post in March 2011, shortly after the deputy ballet director, Gennady Yanin, who was widely seen as a favorite for the artistic director post, resigned when pornographic pictures of him surfaced online.

There was "fierce rivalry" for the Bolshoi position at the time, according to the RIA Novosti news agency.

That year, two dancers quit, unhappy with the direction the ballet had taken.

Another dancer, Nikolai Tsiskaridze, loudly criticized Filin for going over budget in the ballet's multimllion-dollar renovation.

Tsiskaridze, incidentally, was also a contender for the artistic director job that Filin got.

But beyond professional disagreements, sinister factors were also at play.

Act 2 - The Streets of Moscow

RIA Novosti reported that before the attack, Filin suffered months of intimidation, including threatening phone calls.

Someone slashed his car tires. Somebody also attempted to hack his Facebook page.

The trio of conspirators obtained battery acid at a car parts store, and made the acid stronger by evaporating the water from it, police said.

Dmitrichenko, who studied Filin's schedule, called Lipatov and Zarutsky when he saw Filin leave the theater on the cold night of January 17, police said.

As Filin entered the security code at the door of his Moscow apartment, authorities say, Zarutsky confronted him and tossed the sulfuric acid into his face.  It caused third-degree burns and left him blinded.

Act 3 - Moscow Police Headquarters

Detectives pored over interviews with those who knew Filin and had suspicions about who would harm him. Other clues led them to several cell phones that Dmitrichenko had registered in other people's names, according to a police statement.

Calls from those phones led investigators to Lipatov, the alleged driver.

"I didn't see what happened there," Lipatov told them in a video released by police. "I just took Yuri there, waited for him and gave him a lift back."

When an interrogator asked Zarutsky about the crime, he allegedly said, "I don't want to talk about it."

Police concluded a "hostile relationship" stemming from Dmitrichenko's professional interaction with Filin was his motive.

Bolshoi Prima ballerina's grace under pressure

Act 4 - A Moscow Court

The three men faced a judge Thursday, who ordered that they be kept in police custody until the investigation is over.

If convicted, the attackers could face up to eight years in jail for willfully inflicting damage on the health of another.

It may take at least six months for Filin to recover from the burns.

In the meantime, Galina Stepanenko, a former principal dancer, will run the company.

She says she's going to follow Filin's plans and she believes the dancers will now be united by greater respect and care for each other.

Doctors performed a skin graft on Filin and, after a second eye surgery, they were able to save his sight.

His colleagues are now working to ensure his artistic vision isn't lost.

Read the latest news on CNN.com

@highlight

Judge orders all three men to be held in police custody

@highlight

"I organized this attack, but not to the extent that it happened," dancer says

@highlight

Police say the motive was a "hostile relationship"

@highlight

State media: Filin had suffered intimidation, including threatening phone calls
***END_OF_STORY***
This week the Supreme Court heard two historic cases on marriage. Even though I was a lawyer in the litigation and in the courthouse both days, I can't predict which way the court will come down. But the outcomes range from nothing at all to fundamentally restructuring the foundational unit of western civilization.

Hollingsworth v. Perry is about whether state laws defining marriage as one man and one woman violate the 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. United States v. Windsor asks whether Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, which defines marriage for federal law and programs as between one man and one woman, is unconstitutional. DOMA passed in 1996 with 78% of the U.S. House and 85% of the Senate and was signed by President Bill Clinton.

The whole nation is focused on the litigation. Ironically, it's possible that neither case will be decided on the merits.

In Hollingsworth, California's governor and attorney general abdicated their duties by refusing to defend their state constitution. So pursuant to California law, the sponsors of Prop 8 — officially registered with the state — stepped in to defend the law, represented by Charles Cooper at Cooper Kirk and the Alliance Defending Freedom.

In Windsor, the defendant was the federal government. But President Barack Obama declared that he believes DOMA is unconstitutional and ordered his Justice Department not to defend it. So per its rules, the U.S. House voted to authorize Paul Clement  — probably the greatest Supreme Court lawyer practicing today — to defend DOMA.

Article III of the Constitution limits the jurisdiction of the federal courts. One requirement is that there must be adversity between the parties. Since the defendants in both cases refused to defend their own laws, the court will consider whether the Constitution allows these third-party legal teams to become a proper party to the lawsuits.

There's a second issue in Windsor. Edith Windsor entered into a gay marriage in Canada in 2007 and lived in New York. When her partner died in 2009, Windsor sued to contest the federal estate tax she paid, claiming a spousal exemption.

But New York did not create gay marriage until 2011, so Windsor was not harmed by DOMA not allowing the federal government to recognize her marriage, since if the IRS used state definitions Windsor would still be regarded an a single woman. Thus it's possible she lacks standing to sue over the issue. It also raises the issue of whether courts must recognize polygamous marriages, which are legal in dozens of nations worldwide.

The swing vote regarding the Article III issues in both cases is probably Chief Justice John Roberts. He openly expressed skepticism in Hollingsworth and led the Court in an hour-long debate in Windsor solely focused on whether the court has jurisdiction.

Assuming the court does decide the merits, the implications are historic.

Windsor would alter America's system of federalism. Only the states determine who can get married. But the federal government is free to decide whom to confer federal benefits on — largely economic entitlements and federal issues such as immigration. Federalism is a two-way street. But if DOMA Section 3 is invalidated, the states will be able to dictate whom the recipients of federal benefits are.

If Windsor is historic, Hollingsworth is earth-shattering. If the Supreme Court declares a constitutional right to marriage other than one-man, one-woman, then all traditional marriage laws in all 50 states will be invalid, and there will be a serious debate (already in a lower federal court) of whether polygamists also have a constitutional right to national recognition.

On the merits, the court seems unlikely to declare an unwritten constitutional right to gay marriage, though arguments did not go as well for DOMA. Justice Anthony Kennedy is likely the swing vote in both.

As Justice Samuel Alito said this week, the Internet and cell phones have been around on this planet longer than gay marriage. It is an energetic debate in all 50 states, and this summer we will learn whether the Supreme Court will shut down this debate by making it a constitutional issue on which the American people are not allowed to vote.

@highlight

Ken Klukowski: Cases heard by Supreme Court could result in momentous change

@highlight

He says there are questions of whether cases could be tossed because of special circumstances

@highlight

If court issues sweeping ruling, it could deprive voters of chance to weigh in

@highlight

Klukowski: Gay marriage is such a new phenomenon that court shouldn't freeze the debate
***END_OF_STORY***
Zango Town, Liberia (CNN) -- At the gravesite in a northern Liberia village, there are no religious or traditional burial rites. No ceremony, no mourning, no family members, and no final goodbyes.

Nothing but a group of men dressed in space-suit-like outfits, cautiously throwing the dead body into the grave, they pause only to toss in anything else they are wearing that came into contact with the deceased.

These men are part of the country's Ebola response team, specifically tasked with burying anyone suspected to have died of the Ebola virus.

The virus is spread through contact with the blood and body fluids of people infected with Ebola, and it is still transferable even from a dead body.

To help combat the spread of the disease, the Liberian government has directed that its citizens should not bury anyone who dies of, or is suspected of having been infected with, Ebola.

For months Liberians ignored the directive, fearing that they would be ostracized by their communities if they admitted that their relatives had died of Ebola, but here in Lofa County -- ground zero of the country's outbreak -- almost everyone has witnessed the devastating suffering and numerous deaths caused by the virus.

Now almost anytime there is a suspected Ebola death in the community, they call in the Ebola response team to come and bury the body safely.

Safe burials

"When it started, it wasn't that easy," says Alpha Tamba, an Ebola response coordinator in Lofa County. "It was kind of difficult for communities to disclose death. People preferred driving us away."

"We must be grateful for the communities, through the efforts of the local leaders. Now they are disclosing death to us," he explains.

Today, the team has been called to a village where a woman has died of unknown causes. It may not have been from the deadly virus, but the villagers are not taking any chances.

The Lofa County health team arrives carrying gloves, gowns, goggles and diluted bleach. They suit up: from head to toe, no skin is exposed. On their hands they wear three layers of gloves, securing the edges with clear tape at the wrists.

Before they enter the house to collect the body, one of them goes in and sprays the house with bleach. Then -- and only then -- can the rest of the team enter to place the body in an airtight polythene bag, ready for burial.

Wailing rents the air as the burial team walks out of the house carrying the body on a stretcher. Some of those crying are the dead woman's family members; for their own safety, they can only mourn from a distance.

Town abandoned

A few kilometres away from the village is Zango Town: most of the houses here have been abandoned, their doors padlocked and windows shuttered.

Some of the residents abandoned the town in such a hurry that their clothes and floor mats have been left hanging on clotheslines.

Kazalee Johnson, a community worker, tells CNN the empty houses belong to people who either died of Ebola or those who fled in terror, for fear of contracting the virus.

Johnson says he lost his 8-months-pregnant sister, his brother, niece and many, many others: too many to name.

"They died. They died," he says. "So many people die -- the houses on your right and even the houses on your left. They are all gone," says Johnson.

It's hard to imagine another area in Lofa county that has been harder hit than this one.

But then there's Barkedu Town -- of the 1,000 or so Ebola-related deaths in Liberia, 20% of the victims have died in this single town.

Quarantine zone

Home to more than 8,000 people, Barkedu is now under quarantine: no one can go in, and no one can go out.

The toll of the isolation is weighing heavily on the community.

"From the time we started receiving death from Ebola -- every activity cease," says Musa Sessay, the town's chief. "Because we do farm here and now there's been no farming."

"We need food, we really need medicine. But the most important one is medicine because the hospital is closed down, there is no health worker," he says.

This is what life is like across Lofa: The people are locked in, afraid and alone.

And not even the health workers are spared the ravaging effects of Ebola.

Sometimes when they are called in to investigate a case, they get there only to discover the victim is one of their own.

Ebola nightmares

One of the local clinics had to be locked up after all the healthcare workers based there contracted the virus. Only one survived.

"It is very heartbreaking. You are working for the team at the front and you see them lying down. Day by day, they are dying," says Tamba, who admits the harrowing work he does has caused him nightmares.

"Sometimes we go to bed and we dream of nothing else but Ebola, Ebola, Ebola -- nothing else," he explains. "Several times I dream I become infected, I see myself in the case management center."

But he says that amid all the bad news, he is beginning to hear happier tidings: an increasing number of Ebola survivors, people who initially tested positive for the virus but -- because they reported it early and because of the medical teams' efforts -- later recovered.

These positive outcomes keep Tamba hopeful as he and other health workers continue to tirelessly explain to the community how to prevent infection.

"It is difficult to stand in front of Ebola, but this is the situation we have," he says. "We must do everything we can to kick Ebola out of our country.

"Staying at home or running away from Ebola is not a solution, so we have to face it. We have to fight it. To get it to zero."

READ MORE: Ebola death toll passes 1,550, outbreak worsens
READ MORE: Ebola: Nine things to know about the disease
READ MORE: Ebola: Your biggest questions answered

@highlight

Liberia is one of the countries worst-hit by the West African Ebola outbreak

@highlight

Entire towns and villages have been placed into quarantine or abandoned by residents

@highlight

Health workers must ensure those who die of virus are buried safely, to avoid contamination

@highlight

"Running away from Ebola is not a solution -- we have to face it, fight it," says Alpha Tamba
***END_OF_STORY***
